It raises the question whether munici pal property tax and urban immoveable property tax payable under the relevant Bombay Acts are allowable deductions under section 9 (1) (iv) of the Indian Income tax Act. The assessee company is an investment company deriving its income from properties in the city of Bombay.
The court held that the income from the property was not subject to the tax provisions of Section 9 (1) of the Income Tax Act and therefore the tax officer had no power to determine the amount of the tax payable.
The Tribunal, however, agreed to refer two questions of law to the High Court of Judicature at Bombay, namely, (1) Whether the municipal taxes paid by .<n>the applicant company are an allowable deduction under section 555 of the provisions of section 9 (1) (iv) of the Indian Income tax Act; (2) Whether the urban immoveable property taxes paid for the applicant company .
Chunk 3: Summary - The question for our determination is whether the munic ipal property tax and urban immoveable property tax can be deducted as an allowance under clause (iv) of sub section (1) of section 9 of the Act. The decision of the point depends firstly on the construction of the language employed in sub clause and secondly, on a finding as to the true nature and character of the liability of the owner under the relevant Bombay Acts for the payment of these taxes.
The court held that the tax shall be payable by an assessee under the head ' income from property' in respect of the bona fide annual value of property consisting of any buildings or lands appurtenant thereto of which he is the owner.
Chunk 4: Summary - The Taxman's Act of 1939 amended the tax treatment of interest paid on the security of a property acquired, constructed, repaired, renewed or reconstructed with borrowed capital.
Chunk 6: Summary - The Court of Appeal has ruled that the principle that the outgoings were not part of the assessee's income at all should be extended to cases where obligatory payments had to be made out of the property charged with such payments .<n>The Court held that the second sub clause, "where the property is subject to an annual charge not being a capital charge, the amount of such charge" was added by the framers of the Act of 1939 and should be understood in the same way as the first sub clause having provided for the deduction of interest from the property.
The Court also held that, in view of the opening words of the new sub clause in the Act, the expression "capital charge" also cannot have reference to a charge on the property, and we think it must (1) I.L.R. 60 cal.
Chunk 7: Summary - The sub clause provides for a deduction of annual sums so charged, such sums not being capital sums, the limiting words being intended to exclude cases where capital raised on the security of the property is made repayable in instalments.<n>In Commissioner of Income tax, Bombay vs Mahomedbhoy Rowji, a Bench of the Bombay High Court considered the meaning of these words.
Kania J., however, took a different view and observed that he was not prepared to accept the sugges tion that a document which provides for a certain payment to be made monthly or annually and charged on immoveable property or the estate of an individual becomes a capital charge.<n>It was said that if an annual charge means a charge to secure the discharge of an annual liability, then, capital charge is a charge.
Chunk 9: Summary - Section 143 of the City of Bombay Municipal Act, 1888, authorises the levy of a general tax on all buildings and lands in the city.
The primary responsibility to pay this property tax is on the lessor (vide section 146 of the Act).<n>In order to assess the tax provision has been made for the determination of the annual rateable value of the building in section 154.
Section 24 (2) (b) of the Bombay Finance Act, 1932, provides: "Property taxes due under this Act in respect of any building or land shall, subject to the prior payment of the land revenue, if any, due to the provincial government thereupon, be a first charge upon the said build ing or land"
Chunk 12: Summary - Section 9 of the Indian Income tax Act provides for the tax to be collected on the annual value of the land or the building and are annual taxes, although it may be that they are collected at intervals of six months for the sake of convenience.
The learned Attorney General, on the other hand, argued that although the taxes are assessed for the year the taxes in question fell clearly within the language of section 9 (1) (iv) of the Act. The Attorney General also argued that in allowing deductions all payments made or all liabilities incurred during the previ ous year of assessment should be allowed.
Chunk 13: Summary - The Bombay High Court has ruled that the tax liability on a property is an annual one and the property having been subjected to it is immediately attracted by the provisions of clause (iv) of sub sec tion (1) of section 9 of the Income Tax Act. The Court held that the contentions raised by the learned Attorney General are not sound.
It is apparent from the whole tenor of the two Bombay Acts that the Taxes are in the nature of an annual levy on the property ' and are assessed on the annual value of the Property each year.
Chunk 14: Summary - The words "property taxes due under this Act" mean property taxes for which a person is liable under the Act. Taxes payable during the year have been made a charge on the property.
The provisions of the Act facilities for the discharge of the liability do not in any way affect their true nature and character.<n>If the annual liability is not discharged in the manner laid down by section 197, can it be said that the property cannot be sold for recovery of the whole amount due for the year?<n>The answer to this query can only be in the affirmative, i.e., that the proper ty is liable to sale.
Chunk 15: Summary - The Income Tax Court of Bombay has ruled that it is not necessary for the Chief Justice of India to consider what the exact meaning of the words 'land revenue' is.
Chunk 16: Summary - The law as to them varies from province to province and they may not be necessarily a charge on property in all cases.<n>It is elementary that the primary duty of a Court is to give effect to the intention of the legislature as expressed in the words used by it and no outside consideration can be called in aid tO find that intention.
The Bombay Municipal Act does not cover municipal taxes which are made to charge on the property under section 212 of the Act. Chunk 17: Summary - In the case of Moss Empires Ltd. vs Inland Revenue, 562 Kania J.
Reliance was placed on a decision of the High Court of Madras in Mamad Keyi vs Commissioner of Income tax, Madras (3) in which moneys paid as urban immoveable property tax under the Bombay Finance Act were disallowed as inadmissible under section 9 (1) (iv) or 9 (1)
Chunk 19: Summary - The Allahabad High Court has ruled that the Income Tax Tribunal's decision in the case of Gappumal Kanhaiya Lal vs Commissioner of Incometax (the connected appeal) was not based on any independent or fresh reasoning and was not of much assistance in the deci sion of the case.<n>The appellants will have their costs in the appeal.