Chunk 1: Summary - This appeal arises out of a suit brought by the respondent in the court of the Subordinate Judge, Dhanbad, for recovery of arrears of royalty and cess from the appellant and another alleged to be due under a compromise decree passed on the 6th March, 1923, in a previ ous suit between the predecessors in interest of the par ties.
On 11th March, 1921, one Kumar Krishna Prasad Singh granted a perma nent lease of the right to the underground coal in 5,800 bighas of land belonging to him to Shibsaran Singh and Sitaram Singh by a registered patta stipulating for a salami of Rs. 8,000 and royalty at the rate of 2a.
Chunk 3: Summary - The Singhs felt themselves aggrieved by the latter transaction brought a title suit (No. 1291 of 1921) in the Court of the Subordinate Judge of Dhanbad for a declaration of their title and for possession of the 500 bighas leased to the Deoshis under the aforesaid patta of 7th June, 1921.<n>The suit was however cornpromised on 6th March, 1923, by all the parties and a decree based on the compromise was also passed on the same day.
The interest of the Singhs was brought to sale in 193S in execution of a decree obtained against them and was purchased by the plaintiff who insti tuted the presnt suit on 3rd October, 1942, claiming the royalty and cesses payable under the compromise decree for the period from Pous 1345 to Asadh 1349 B.S. Chunk 4: Summary - The Deoshis entered into a compromise with the Singhs in March 1923.
Chunk 5: Summary - The U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Madhya Pradesh has ordered a coal mining company to pay a total of Rs. 8,000 to settle a dispute with a group of farmers in Madhya Pradesh.
The plaintiffs also agreed to pay the defendants a mini mum royalty in future, which will be determined by the court at the time of execution of the order.
Chunk 6: Summary - The High Court of Bombay has ordered a new Kabuliyat in favour of the plaintiff in respect of the modified terms stated above, i.e., on the condition that the annual minimum royalty will be Rs. 6,000 instead of Rs. 8,000 and commission will be at the rate of la.
Chunk 8: Summary - The agreement was made conditional on the Singhs paying Rs. 8,000 to Kumar within 2 months from the date of the compromise.
Chunk 9: Summary - The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that a 1923 agreement between a real estate company and a property developer is not subject to the scope of an exception to the rule that prohibits a "compromise" agreement that is not the subject matter of a title suit.
The court held that, if the developer had proved that it was a lease, the agreement was not outside the exception of the exception in sub section (2), clause (vi) of the law.
Chunk 10: Summary - Mano har Lall J., who delivered the leading judgment, observed: "It was a tripartite agreement embodied in the decree of the court and was, therefore, exempt from registration.
It will be oh.served also that so far as the defendants were con cerned, their possession of the 500 bighas was not inter fered with and they still remained in possession as the lessees, but instead of paying the royalty to the plaintiffs it was agreed between all the parties that the defendants would pay the royalty in future to Shibsaran and Sitcram."<n>The High Court was of opinion that, on a proper construction of the terms of the compromise, it did not fall under clause (d) of the agreement.
Chunk 11: Summary - The court held that a mere alteration of the rent reserved does not make the transaction a new lease so as to bring it within clause (d) of subsection (1).
Nor can we accept the suggestion of Mr. Chatterjee for the respondents theft the compromise operated as an assignment to the Singhs by Kumar of the latter 's reversion under the "lease granted to" to the latter "s reverted under "the lease granted to theSinghs" to pay the same amount of royalty and commission as had been agreed to in the original lease.
The court also held that the agreement was not to be held to fall within the mischief of section 17 (1)(d)of the (1) P.C. 839.
The argument, however, overlooks that Kumar had leased the area of 5,800 bighas by his patta dated 11th March, 1921, and the compromise by providing that the .<n>Singhs should pay the reduced royalty of 1a.
Chunk 13: Summary - The Delhi High Court has ruled that a lease agreement between the Singhs and the Deoshis must be a document which effects an actual demise and operates as a lease .<n>Until the payment was made it was impossible to execute the decree or to take possession of the disputed property.
The court held that the agreement was not a lease, but a document that creates a present and immediate interest in the land.
The Singhs agreed to pay Kumar the sum of Rs. 8,000 within two months of the signing of the agreement.
The Court held that this was a condition for the agreement to take effect only on the condition that it was not to become a lease.
Chunk 14: Summary - We agree with the conclusion of the High Court though on dif ferent grounds and dismiss the appeal with costs.<n>This is on the basis that it is not within clause (d) of the lease agreement and is covered by clause (b) of sub section ('2), which is excepted by section (vi) of clause ('2).<n>We also agree that there would be no lease under lease if there were any under lease or not.