Chunk 1: Summary - The Court of the Additional District Magistrate, Lakhimpur, recorded a plea of guilty, but imposed a fine of Rs. 50 only, as he considered his ignorance of the provisions of the Food Grains Control Order, 1947.
The District Magistrate, being moved to do so by the department, referred the case to the High Court under section438, Criminal Procedure Code, for enhancement of the sentence.
Chunk 3: Summary - The case was sent back to the trial court for taking action according to law under section 514, Criminal Procedure Code, for its forfeiture.
The appellant applied to the High Court for a certificate under article 134 (1) (c) of the Constitution that the case was a fit one for appeal to this Court.
The case has been transferred to the Court of Appeal for the Appellate Tribunal.
Chunk 5: Summary - The case happened to be tried by the same gentleman in his capacity as Addtional District Magistrate, and the accused was convicted as aforesaid.<n>The argument for the appellant was that having sanctioned the prosecution, Sri C.K. Bhuyan became "personally interested" in the case within the meaning of section 556, and was therefore incompetent to try the same.<n>It was contended that the trial was not only irregular but illegal.
The High Court of India has upheld the conviction of the former Additional District Magistrate of Lakhimpur for the offence of violating the provisions of Section 3 of the Assam Food Grains Oontrol Order, 1947.
Chunk 6: Summary - The Explanation to the section runs in these terms: "A Judge or Magistrate shall not be deemed a party, or personally interested, within the .<n>meaning of this section, to or in any case by reason only that be is a Municipal Commissioner or otherwise concerned therein in a public capacity"<n>This shows that to be connected with a case in the public capacity is not by itself enough to render the person incompetent to try it.
Chunk 7: Summary - Section 38 of the Assam Food Grains Control Order provides for the disqualification of officials who direct the prosecution of a person for a breach of the excise laws.
Section 38 provides: "If a prosecution is directed by a person in one capacity, he shall not try the case acting in another capacity as a Magistrate.
Chunk 8: Summary - A little confusion is likely to arise from the employment of the word " Director" in the Control Order .<n>A sanction by the Director within the meaning of the Code does not necessarily mean "a direction given by him that the accused should be prosecuted.
"In both cases of sanction and direction, an application of the mind is necessary, but there is this essential difference that in the one case there is a legal impediment to the prosecution if there be no sanction, and in the other case, a positive order that 131 the prosecution should be launched.
Chunk 9: Summary - The question whether a Magistrate is personally interested or not has essentially to be decided the facts in each case.
The facts in that case were that while there was a sanction of the Government for a prosecution under the Cotton Cloth and Yarn Control, Order, there was nothing in the sanction itself, or in the shape of extraneous evidence, to show that the sanction was accorded after the relevant facts were placed before the sanctioning authority.
Chunk 11: Summary - The prosecution was in a position either to produce or to account for the absence of the 'report made to the District Superintendent of Police and the endorsement of the District Magistrate referred to in the sanction, and to call any necessary oral evidence to supplement the documents and show what were the facts which the sanction was given.
Chunk 12: Summary - The Supreme Court has ruled that a person can not be judge in a case in which he has an interest.
The Court held that the fact that Dass had an interest in the case did not mean that he could not be a judge in it.
Chunk 13: Summary - A Full Bench consisting of Sir Richard Couch C.J. and five other learned Judges came to the conclusion, after an examination of some of the English cases, that the trial was not vitiated.<n>The learned Chief Justice said: "In this case, I think, the Sub Registrar has not such an interest in the matter as disqualifies him from trying the case; and I may observe with reference to .<n>some of the arguments that have been used as to the sub registrar having made up his mind, and that the accused would have no chance of a fair trial."<n>He added: "Certainly I do not consider that the prosecution will not be instituted unless the sub Registrar can be sanctioned before the prosecution can be instituted."
Chunk 15: Summary - The Bombay High Court held that the Magistrate who tried the case had earlier held a departmental enquiry and forwarded the papers to the Collector with his opinion that there was sufficient evidence to justify a criminal prosecution.
The High Court went even a step further in the case reported in Emperor vs Bavji (3), where the Magistrate had previously held a department enquiry and sent the papers for the Collector's consideration.
Chunk 16: Summary - The U.S. Court of Appeals for the 9th Circuit has upheld a lower court's decision not to order a criminal trial in the case of a former California Department of Public Health employee accused of misappropriating public funds.
The Court held that this provision did not apply to the case in which the employee was charged.
The appellant's case was not before the court at the time of this decision.
Chunk 17: Summary - The High Court ruled that the power to forfeit and the imposition of the penalty for in the later parts of the section arise only if the preliminary conditions are satisfied.<n>There was no argument addressed to us that the High Court in suggesting that action should be taken under section 514 for forfeiture of the bond acted in the exercise of its inherent powers under section 561 A of the Code of Conduct for the Prevention of Fraud and Abuse of Public Office and the Enforcement of the Rules of Practice of the Court of the Presidency Magistrate or Magistrate of the first class, or when the bond is for appearance before a Court, to the satisfaction of such Court, that such bond has been forfeited.
Chunk 18: Summary - The order of the High Court sending back the case to the 136 Magistrate for taking action according to law under section 514 will, therefore, stand set aside.
The High Court's decision to send the case back will not affect the sentence imposed on the appellant.
In this case, the Court finds that the Magistrate did not have the power to order the appellant to produce the same paddy or a similar quantity of paddy as the one taken away by a member of the Legislative Assembly.
Chunk 19: Summary - The High Court has set aside the sentence of imprisonment imposed by the High Court of Assam on a man for being ignorant of the provisions of the Assam Food Grains Control Order, 1947.