Chunk 1: Summary - On November 17, 1960, the Election Commission of India (ECI) issued an order disqualifying Ram Padarath Mahto, a candidate for the Dalsinghsarai Constituency in the District of Darbhanga in Bihar, for membership of the Bihar Legislature under section 7(d) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951.
The appeal was filed under the provisions of Section 10 of the Election Act and the Rules of the Court of Appeal of the High Court of Patna.
Chunk 2: Summary - On February 1, 1957, the nomination paper filed by the appellant was rejected by the returning officer on two grounds; he held that the appellant being an Inspector of Co operative Societies was a Government servant at the material time and so was disqualified from standing for election.
Chunk 3: Summary - The Election Tribunal has upheld the validity of the general and reserved seat elections held in Bihar in 1957 .<n>The Tribunal held that the two candidates declared to have been duly elected and five others who had contested in the election were not in the employ of the Government of Bihar at the time of the election.
Chunk 4: Summary - The Election Tribunal rejected the appellant 's case that there was a partition in the family, and held that at the relevant time the appellant continued to be a member of the joint Hindu family which had entered into a contract in question with the Government of Bihar.
Chunk 5: Summary - The two contesting respondents filed two appeals in the High Court at Patna.
The High Court has confirmed the finding of the Tribunal that the appellant was not a Government servant at the material time.<n>On the construction of the contract, however, it differed from the view adopted by the Tribunal and held that as a result of the said contract the appellant had been disqualified under section 7(d) of the Act.<n>The High Court did not think it necessary to consider whether the Tribunal was right in declaring void the election of not only respondent 1 but of respondent 2 as well.
Chunk 7: Summary - The High Court has found that the Government of Bihar had undertaken to discharge the service of supplying grain to the residents of Bihar and the firm of the appellant 's family had entered into a contract for the performance of the said services.
Chunk 8: Summary - The contract was made on February 8, 1956, between the Governor of Bihar and the firm which is described as the second party.<n>The preamble to the contract shows that the first party had to stock and store foodgrains in Darbhanga District for sale in pursuance of the Grain Supply Scheme of the Government for which a proper custodian and bailee for reward was necessary.
Chunk 10: Summary - The first party shall be liable to pay to the second party on the value of the stocks moved or taken over from his custody under the orders or directions of the first party or his agent calculated at the rate fixed by the Government from time to time for wholesale sales of grain.
Chunk 11: Summary - The contract for stocking and storing foodgrains belonging to the State Government has not yet been produced before the Election Tribunal.
The appellant's firm was appointed a bailee under the provisions of section 7(d) of the Election Act. The terms and conditions of the contract are not yet clear, but the appellant contends that the service undertaken by the state government is the sale of food grains under its Grain Supply Scheme.
The tribunal held that the contract was not for sale, but for the stocking and storage of the food grains.
The court held that if the contract in question was that of stocking the food grains the contract would obviously attract the provisions.
Chunk 12: Summary - A contract for stocking and storing of foodgrains should be regarded as a contract for their sale?<n>It is difficult to accept the argument that stocking and storage is shown to be such an essential and integral part of the supply scheme adopted by the State Government.<n>It would be possible for State Government to adopt a scheme whereby goods may be supplied without State Government having had the right to do so, the court ruled.
The court held that the contract was not essential for the purpose of carrying out the scheme of sale of food grains.
The Court held that it was not necessary for the State to supply goods to the residents of Bihar in order to carry out the foodgrain scheme.
Chunk 13: Summary - The only obligation that was imposed on the firm by this contract was to be a custodian or bailee of the goods, keep them in good order and deliver them after weighment as directed by the first party.
Chunk 14: Summary - The High Court has ruled that a contract of bail imposed on a bailee the obligation to stock and store the foodgrains in his godown can be said to be a contract for the purpose of the service of sale of grain which the State Government had undertaken within the meaning of section 7(d) of the Food Act. The Court held that the contract was not a contract to sell or supply goods, but to provide for the sale or supply of food.
We are unable to accept the conclusion of the High Court that, on the record as it stands, the contract imposed on the bailee is a contract which imposed on him the obligations to stock, store and transport the food grains.
Chunk 15: Summary - The High Court has ruled that a company which had a share in a contract for the supply of grain to the people of the State of Bihar should be disqualified from bidding for the contract.<n>The High Court held that the company's share in the contract meant that it was interested in the performance of the service undertaken by the Government of Bihar.
Chunk 16: Summary - The High Court did not correctly appreciate the effect of the contract when it held that the said contract brought the appellant 's case within the mischief of section 7(d) of the Companies Act, 1956.
Subramanyan (1) .<n>In that case the appellant who was a contractor had entered into an agreement with the Central Government for the provision of a motor vehicle service for the transit and conveyance of all postal articles for the period specified in the contract, and the Governor General had accepted the offer.
Chunk 17: Summary - The Court held that the Central Government had undertaken to make provision for postal mail service under the Indian Post Offices Act for the convenience of the public.<n>This contention was rejected on the ground that though the Government was not bound in the discharge of its duties as a sovereign State, it had in fact undertaken to do so under the Act.
"It cannot be gainsaid", observed Sinha, J., "that the postal department is rendering a very useful service, and that the appellant has by his contract with the Government undertaken to render that kind of service on the basis of his remuneration for the service to be rendered by him." The Court also held that it cannot be said that the Government had not undertaken any service within the meaning of section 7(d) of the Act when it made arrangements for the carriage of mailbags and postal articles through the contractor.
Chunk 18: Summary - The Madras High Court has held that the contract for stocking and storing of goods is a contract for rendering the service of supplying and selling the same to the residents of the place.
V. Ramaswamy vs Election Tribunal, Tirunelveli, the Court held that in order for the contract to be valid, the Government must undertake to render a specified service or specified services and the contract must be for the rendering of the said service or services.
Chunk 19: Summary - The Court held that the High Court was not justified in reversing the finding of the Tribunal that the contract in question did not attract the provisions of section 7(d) of the Act.<n>We cannot finally dispose of the matter, because one question still remains to be considered, and that is whether the conclusion that the appellant 's nomination paper had been improperly rejected would lead to a finding that the court had improperly rejected the nomination paper.
Chunk 20: Summary - The Election Tribunal has declared the whole election to be void, and in their respective appeals both the respondents have challenged the correctness of that finding.<n>The High Court, however, thought that since in its opinion the nomination paper of the appellant had been properly rejected it was unnecessary to deal with the other point.