Chunk 1: Summary - This is an appeal from the judgment of the Nagpur High Court dismissing the appellants petition under articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India.
Chunk 2: Summary - The Legislature of the State of Madhya Pradesh passed the Madhya Pradesh Abolition of Proprietary Rights (Estates, Mahals, Alienated Lands) Act, 1950 (Madhya Pradesh Act 1 of 1951)<n>The Act received the assent of the President of India on January 22, 1951.
The preamble of the Act stated that it was one to provide for the acquisition of the rights of proprietors in estates, mahals, alienated villages and alienated lands in Madhya Pradesh and to make provisions for other matters connected therewith.
Chunk 4: Summary - The High Court held that the provisions of the Act did not apply to a Ruler or to the private property of a Ruler which was not assessed to land revenue.<n>The appellant contended that he was still a Sovereign Ruler and 227 absolute owner of the villages specified in Schedules A and B of his petition under articles 226 and of the Constitution.
The Court also held that, if the Ruler's private property was not deemed to be in possession of a raiyat which has been separately assessed as land revenue, then his rights under the Act apply.
Chunk 5: Summary - The High Court has ruled that the courts cannot interfere in disputes arising out of the provisions of article 363 of the Constitution and article 3 of the Merger Agreement.
Chunk 6: Summary - The High Court ruled that the appellant did not come within the expression 'ex Ruler' as contained in the definition of the word 'proprietor' in the Act. According to Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, 'Ruler ' means "one who, or that which, exercises rule, especially of a supreme or sovereign kind.
Chunk 7: Summary - The question whether the villages mentioned in Schedules A and B of the petition under articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution fell in any of the categories, "Estates, Mahals, Alienated lands", was also considered by the High Court.
The High Court was of the opinion that in these circumstances it was for the appellant to establish that the villages in question had never been assessment to land revenue but this was denied on behalf of the State of Madhya Pradesh.
Chunk 8: Summary - The High Court of India has ruled that the Government of India did not recognize the private property of the appellant as required by the second and third paragraphs of the Merger Agreement.<n>The High Court, accordingly, dismissed the appellant's petition under articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution.
The Court held that the villages in question came within the definition of the word 'mahal' contained in the Act. The appellant had also been urged that the Act could not defeat the rights of him guaranteed under article 3 of the merger agreement.
Chunk 9: Summary - The High Court has held that the merger agreement between the Government of India and the State of Madhya Pradesh is not subject to the jurisdiction of the courts.
Chunk 11: Summary - The High Court held that 507 the appellant was an ex Ruler and that article 366(22) of the Constitution did not make him a Ruler for the purposes of the Act.<n>The effect of the Merger Agreement is clearly one by which factually a Ruler of an Indian State ceases to be a Ruler but for the sake of the privy purse guaranteed, he is a Ruler as defined in the article.
The Court also held that there is nothing in the provisions of the article which requires a court to recognise such a person as a ruler for purposes outside the Constitution.
The court held that the Act does not provide for the recognition of such persons as Rulers for purposes other than those provided for in the Constitution of India.
Chunk 12: Summary - The High Court has ruled that the term 'maufidar' is not confined to a grantee from a State or a Ruler of a State.
Chunk 13: Summary - In the case of a maufidar he must be a person who by or under the provisions contained in the wajib ul arz applicable to his village, had the right to recover rent or revenue from persons holding land in such village.<n>In the petition under articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution, filed by the appellant in the High Court, it was nowhere asserted that even if he was regarded as a Maufidar it was not entered in the Wajib with respect to any of his mauFi villages that he had a right .<n>From the judgment of the High 508 Court it would appear that no such argument was advanced before it.
Chunk 14: Summary - The High Court of Maharashtra has dismissed an appeal by a former maufidar against an order of the Bombay High Court which had ordered him to recover rent and revenue from persons holding land in his villages.
Chunk 15: Summary - The High Court held that the contention that the villages had been assessed to land revenue, which was denied on behalf of the State of Madhya Pradesh, could not be accepted.
As for the other villages, in Schedules A and B of the petition of the appellant under articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution the High Court, in our opinion, rightly held that this petition was not maintainable as these villages had not yet been recognised by the Government of India as the private property of an appellant.