The Act provides for the payment of a fine of up to 12,000 to those who fail to comply with the provisions of the Act. The Court held that the Act is unconstitutional on several grounds, including that it does not provide for a right to appeal against the decision of the high court.
Chunk 2: Summary - The Bombay High Court has ruled that the property which has been dealt with under the Act is not an estate and that no compensation has been provided in the Act for taking away the property of the appellants.
Chunk 4: Summary - The Supreme Court has ruled that the right to hold lands on payment of one fourth of the assessment instead of full 946 assessment plus further one sixteenth was the main right which the holders of lands got by Act 11.
Act No. VII dealt with similar holders of land in the remaining parts of the Presidency of Bombay, and made similar provisions with this difference that such holders were to pay two annas for each rupee of the assessments as quit rent under section 6.
Chunk 5: Summary - Section 3 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879 provides that the Act will not apply to certain inams held by religious or charitable institutions.
Thus so far so far, religious and charitable institutions were concerned those in Ams which they held from the very beginning as devasthan or dharmadaya inAms and which were entered in the relevant records were out of the provisions of the Act. Section 4 extinguishes all personal inam's and save as expressly provided by or under the Act, all rights leg.
Chunk 6: Summary - Section 5 provides that all inam villages or inam lands are and shall be liable to the payment of land revenue in accordance with the provisions of the Code or the 947 rules made thereunder.
Section 5 further provides that an inamdar in respect of the inam land in his actual possession or in possession of a person holding from him other than an inferior holder (subject to an exception which we shall mention just now) would be primarily responsible to the State Government for the payment .<n>In respect of such land held by him, he shall be entitled to all the rights as provided for in the Code.
Sub section (5) 948 of section 17 however says that " nothing in this section shall entitle any person to compensation on the ground that any inam village or inam land which was wholly or partially exempt from the payment of land revenue has been under the provisions of this Act." Section 17 A provides for the issue of bonds while section 18 provi says that the Act is subject to full assessment in accordance with provisions of the Code.
Chunk 9: Summary - The main right of an inamdar was to hold his lands on payment of land revenue which was less than the full assessment and it is this right which has been abolished by sections 4 and 5 of the Act.<n>No compensation has been provided for the loss which the Inamdar suffers by having to pay the fullassessment.<n>This brings us to the first contention.
The Act provides for compensation with respect to lands vested in the State by virtue of that section.
4 and five.<n>The Act also provides for the payment of compensation to those who have lost the right to hold their lands on the basis of the provisions of this Act. In the case of a village, the right of the villager to hold the lands in the name of his own name and to use them for the benefit of his family is abolished.
It is, however, urged that the right of the inamdar to appropriate to himself that part of full assessment which was left over after he had paid the quit .<n>The Act also provides for a right of inam to be vested in a proprietor, sub proprietor, under proprietor, tenure holder, raiyat or other intermediary in respect of land revenue.
Chunk 12: Summary - The inamdar's right to retain part of the full assessment over and above the quit rent payable to the Government arises because he holds the inam estate.
Chunk 13: Summary - The Court ruled that when the Act extinguishes or modifies the rights of inamdars in the inam estates is clearly protected by article 31 A.
It is true, however, that by sub section (5) of section 17 no compensa there is no provision for compensation for the loss of a right to retain the difference between full assessment and quit rent, which is a right in an estate under Art.31 A.The Court of Appeal ruled that the appellants' contentions that inams dealt with by the Act are not covered by the expression " estate " in articles 31 A and 31 A fail.
The appellants also failed to make a case that their right to maintain their position as a result of the extinguishment or modifies of their rights is not a right under the Act. Chunk 14: Summary - In this view of the matter the constitutionality of the Act cannot be assailed on the ground that it provides no compensation for extinction of certain rights.<n>It is how ever clear that article 31 A saves the Act from any attack under article 31 which is the only Article providing for compensation.<n>There is no force in these appeals and they are hereby dismissed with costs.