The appellant was a Loco Shed Foreman at Alambagh Loco Shed, and Shukla had s.<n>The appellant was convicted under section 161 of the Indian Penal Code and under section 5(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act 2 of 1947.
Chunk 2: Summary - The prosecution case was that the appellant demanded from Shukla Rs. 400 per month in order that he may be allowed to carry out his contract peacefully without any harassment.
The appellant challenged the correctness and propriety of this order by his appeal before the High Court of India.
Chunk 6: Summary - The High Court saw no reason to interfere with the order under appeal because it held that, on the facts of the case, a statutory presumption under section 4 had to be raised and that the said presumption had not been rebutted by the appellant.
In other words, the High Court did not consider the prosecution evidence apart from the presumption since 596 it placed its decision on the presumption and the failure of the defence to rebut it.
This appeal has been placed before a Constitution Bench because one of the points which the appellant raises for our decision is that section 4(1) requires a presumption.
Section 4(1) provides that where in any trial of an offence punishable under section 161 or section 165 of the Indian Penal Code it is proved that an accused person has accepted or obtained, or has agreed to accept or attempted to obtain, for himself or for any other person, any gratification (other than legal remuneration) or any valuable thing from any person, it shall be presumed unless the contrary is proved.
Chunk 8: Summary - The scope and effect of the fundamental right guaranteed by article 14 has been considered by this Court on several occasions .<n>The 597 impugned legislation is based on a reasonable classification founded on intelligible differentia and that the said differentia have a rational relation to the object Sought to be achieved by it, its validity cannot be successfully challenged under article 14.
The Court of Appeal has upheld the High Court's decision to dismiss the appeal brought by Mr. Anthony, for the appellant, challenging the validity of Section 597 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the provisions of Section 5 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (C.C.P.)
Chunk 10: Summary - The Madras High Court has rejected a challenge to the vires of section 4(1) of the Prohibition Act, 10 of 1937, which provides for a presumption that a public servant will not be convicted if he or she has been found guilty of a criminal offence in the course of his or her public service.
The Court noted that the Court of Appeal for the High Court of Tamil Nadu had held that a similar challenge to section 4(2) of the Madras Prohibition Act was repelled by the Court in A.
In that case, the Court held, in part, that there was no need to raise the presumption because there was a rational and direct relation between the object and the intelligible differentia on which the classification is based.
Chunk 11: Summary - Section 4(1) of the Indian Penal Code provides for the raising of a presumption that a person is guilty of a criminal offence if he or she is found to have accepted or paid for any gratification other than legal remuneration.
In this case, the prosecution has to prove that the appellant accepted or received the amount as a bribe.
Chunk 12: Summary - Section 4(1) requires the presumption to be raised whenever it is proved that an accused person has accepted " any illegal gratification (other than legal remuneration) or any valuable thing.
Chunk 13: Summary - The use of the 599 word gratification emphasises that it is not the receipt of any money which justifies the raising of the presumption.
The contention no doubt is supported by the decision of the Rajasthan High Court in The State vs Abhey Singh (1), as well as the decisions of the Bombay High Court, in the State vs Pandurang Laxman Parab (2).<n>Mathur, for the State, argues that the word " gratification " should be construed in its literal dictionary meaning and as such it means satisfaction of appetite or desire; that is to say the presumption can be raised whenever it is shown that the accused has received satisfaction either of his desire or appetite.
Chunk 14: Summary - Section 161 of the Code provides that the word " gratification " is not restricted to pecuniary gratification or to gratifications estimable in money.
What the prosecution has to prove before asking the court to raise a presumption against an accused person is that the accused person has received a " gratification other than legal remuneration ".<n>If it is shown, as in the present case it has been shown, the accused received the stated amount and that the said amount was not legal remuneration then the condition prescribed by the section is satisfied.
Chunk 15: Summary - There is no difficulty in holding that where money is shown to have been paid to, and accepted by, such public servant and that the said money does not constitute his legal remuneration, the presumption has to be raised as required by the section.<n>If the word " gratification " is construed to mean money paid by way of a bribe then it would be futile or superfluous to prescribe for the raising of the presumption.
In the context we see no justification for not giving t .<n>The court may then presume that the money was paid as a bribe as a motive or reward as required under section 161 of the Code.
Chunk 16: Summary - The presumption that the valuable thing should have been received by the accused without consideration or for a consideration which he knows to be inadequate has to be raised when it is shown that the accused has received any valuable thing .<n>It cannot be suggested that the relevant clause in section 4(1) should be interpreted to impose upon the prosecution an obligation to prove not only that the important thing has been received but that it was received by him without consideration.
The Court ruled that the prosecution had not proved that this was the case and that the presumption should be raised.
Chunk 17: Summary - The Court held that the word " gratification " in the same clause imports the necessity to prove not only the payment of 601 of money but the incriminating character of the said payment.
We would therefore hold that the Court of Appeal is of the opinion that the provisions of section 4(1) of the Indian Penal Code provide for the prosecution to be able to use the words " gratification" and "incriminating character" of the payment to prove that the accused received the valuable thing without anything more than the payment.
Chunk 18: Summary - The High Court was justified in raising the presumption against the appellant because it is admitted by him that he received Rs. 375 from Shukla and that the amount thus received by him was other than legal remuneration.
Chunk 19: Summary - The Privy Council was dealing with the case where the prosecution had established that the accused were in possession of goods recently stolen and the point which arose for decision was how the explanation given by the accused about his possession of the said goods would or should be considered by the jury.
Chunk 20: Summary - The High Court should not have applied the same test as has to be applied in dealing with the prosecution case, argues Mr. Anthony.
The court should have also inquired whether the appellant's explanation was sufficient to satisfy the jury of the probability of that which the accused is called upon to establish " (p.
It is on the strength of these decisions that Mr. Antony contends that in deciding whether the contrary has been proved or not under section 4(1) the High Court shouldn't have applied a same test.
Chunk 21: Summary - Section 4(1) of the Evidence Act provides that the court shall presume a fact it shall record such fact as proved unless and until it is disproved.
We are prepared to assume that the Court will find that the provisions of the Act do not apply to the accused in this case.
In the absence of any other evidence, the court finds that the explanation given by the appellant is reasonably probable and the presumption raised against him can be rebutted.
Chunk 23: Summary - The High Court has found that at the material time the appellant was in possession of a bank balance of Rs. 1,600 and that his salary was about Rs. 600 per month.
The Court also considered whether it would have been probable that Shukla 604 should have advanced money to the appellant.
Chunk 24: Summary - The High Court has referred to the statement made by the appellant before the magistrate after the investigation into the offence had commenced.
The court's judgment of January 8, 1953, shows that it was not of much importance to consider the explanation given by the accused in relation to the offer of a loan to the appellant.
Chunk 25: Summary - The High Court was right in discarding the explanation given by the appellant as wholly unsatisfactory and unreasonable.
That being so it is really not necessary in the present appeal to decide the question about the nature of the onus of proof cast upon the accused by section 4(1) after the statutory presumption is raised against him.<n>In the result the appeal fails, the order of conviction and sentence passed against the appellant is confirmed and his bail bond cancelled.
The Court of Appeal has dismissed the appeal against the High Court's decision to reject the appellant's application for leave to appeal against his conviction on the basis that he had not provided a sufficient explanation of the facts of the case.