Chunk 1: Summary - The appellants were convicted under sections 65(b), 65(f) and 66(b) of the Bombay Prohibition Act of 1949, hereinafter referred to as the Act, by the Presidency Magistrate XX Court, Mazagaon, Bombay.
Chunk 2: Summary - The High Court set aside their convictions under sections 65(b) and 66(b), but maintained their conviction under section 65(f) read with section 81 relying on the presumption against the appellants arising out of section 103 of the Act. According to the case of the prosecution, there was a search on August 2, 1958, of certain premises in the occupation of appellant No. 1 on the third floor of Dhun Mansion, Khetwadi 12th Lane.
The appellants appealed to the Bombay High Court against their convictions and sentence.
The high court set aside the convictions and ordered that the sentence of imprisonment and fine imposed by the Presidency Magistrate be regarded as the prison sentence and the fine imposed on them by the High Court.
Chunk 4: Summary - The Presidency Magistrate was satisfied that a working still and illicit liquor in the glass jars and the two bottles were found in the premises in question.<n>The High Court also was of the opinion that it would not be safe to rely upon the conflicting and unsatisfactory evidence in the case to hold that illicit liquor had been found there.
Chunk 5: Summary - On behalf of the appellants it was urged that no presumption under section 103 of the Act could arise as it had not been established, on the findings of the High Court, that the still was an apparatus for the manufacture of any intoxicant .<n>It was further argued that no questions were put to the accused, when they were examined under section 342 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, in this connection and therefore they had been denied the opportunity to rebut the presumption.<n>The Presidency Magistrate had not used the provision, because he had found that in fact illicit liquor had been recovered from the premises and that the Still was for manufacturing such intoxicants.<n>If the Magistrate had at all intended to use the presumption, he was bound to have given them an opportunity to Rebut it.
Chunk 6: Summary - The appellants were convicted on the presumption that no illicit liquor was recovered as a result of the search.
It was further urged on behalf of the appellants that they could not be convicted for being in possession of the still or under section 65(f) read with section 81, that is to say, abetment of an offence under the Act. This appellant was merely a servant of appellant No. 1.
Chunk 7: Summary - No evidence to show that appellant No. 2 had aided or abetted his master in coming into possession of the still.
He was merely an employee in the premises and cannot be said to be in physical possession of things belonging to his maste.<n>No presumption against this appellant could arise under section 103 of the Act. As he was merely using the pump, presumably under his master's orders, there is no evidence that he in any way aided his master to come into possession.
We would accordingly allow the appeal of appellant No. 2 and set aside his conviction and sentence.<n>There can be no question that the appellant was found in possession of a still which, having regard to its nature, is ordinarily used for the manufacture of an intoxicant such as liquor.
The appellant was convicted of an offence under section 65(f) of the Drugs and Substances Act and sentenced to 18 months imprisonment.
The Court also ruled that there is no evidence that the heating process to achieve this required an elaborate still of the kind found in the premises of appellant No. 1 .<n>It was, however, pointed out that no questions were put to the appellant in order to give him an opportunity to rebut the presumption arising out of section 103 of the Act. When the appellant was examined, it was noted that when he was examined he had not been asked any questions about the matter.
Chunk 10: Summary - The High Court has ruled that the Magistrate in the case had not put to the appellant any specific questions about the still and the other articles found in the premises occupied by him.
The presumption arises under section 103 of the Act is that an offence is committed where a person is found in mere possession, without further evidence, of any still, utensil, implement or apparatus whatsoever for the manufacture of any intoxicant until the contrary is proved.
Chunk 11: Summary - We are satisfied that there was no prejudice caused to the appellant, in the circumstances of the present case, when the High Court relied upon the presumption arising under section 103 522 to uphold his conviction under section 65(f) of the Act.<n>It was finally urged that the sentence should be reduced.
Accordingly, the appeal of appellant No. 2 is allowed and his conviction and sentence are set aside.