Chunk 1: Summary - This is an appeal from the judgment of the Nagpur High Court dismissing the appellants petition under articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution of India.
Chunk 4: Summary - The High Court held that the provisions of the Act did not apply to a Ruler or to the private property of a Ruler which was not assessed to land revenue.<n>The appellant contended that he was still a Sovereign Ruler and 227 absolute owner of the villages specified in Schedules A and B of his petition under articles 226 and of the Constitution.
The court also rejected the contention that the word 'maufidar' in section 2(m) of the Act was not only a person to whom a grant of maufi lands had been made but was also one who held land which was exempt from the payment of "rent or tax"<n>The High Court was of the opinion that article 362 of the Constitu tion was of no assistance to the appellant.
Chunk 6: Summary - The High Court ruled that the appellant did not come within the expression 'ex Ruler' as contained in the definition of the word 'proprietor' in the Act. According to Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, 'Ruler ' means "one who, or that which, exercises rule, especially of a supreme or sovereign kind.
Chunk 7: Summary - The question whether the villages mentioned in Schedules A and B of the petition under articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution fell in any of the categories, "Estates, Mahals, Alienated lands", was also considered by the High Court.
The High Court was of the opinion that in these circumstances it was for the appellant to establish that the villages in question had never been assessment to land revenue but this was denied on behalf of the State of Madhya Pradesh.
Chunk 8: Summary - The High Court of India has ruled that the Government of India did not recognize the private property of the appellant as required by the second and third paragraphs of the Merger Agreement.<n>The High Court, accordingly, dismissed the appellant's petition under articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution.
The Court held that the villages in question came within the definition of the word 'mahal' contained in the Act. In view of the provisions of article 363(1) of the Act, it seems clear to us that in view of this provision, the Act could not defeat the rights of an appellant guaranteed under article 3 of the merger agreement.
Chunk 9: Summary - The High Court has held that the Merger Agreement between the Government of India and the State of Madhya Pradesh is not subject to the jurisdiction of the courts.
The Court held that there was no need for the courts to consider the issue of whether the appellant is an ex Ruler for the purposes of the Act. The question is whether his recognition as Ruler by virtue of the provisions of article 366(22) of the Constitution as Ruler is based on the fact that he ceded his State to the Government for integration with the Central Provinces and Berar in such manner that the Government thought fit.
Chunk 11: Summary - The High Court held that 507 the appellant was an ex Ruler and that article 366(22) of the Constitution did not make him a Ruler for the purposes of the Act.<n>The effect of the Merger Agreement is clearly one by which factually a Ruler of an Indian State ceases to be a Ruler.
In our opinion, the High Court rightly held that there is no provision in the Constitution which requires a court to recognise such a person as a Ruler outside the Constitution.
Chunk 12: Summary - The High Court has ruled that the former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister was not only an ex Ruler but a maufidar - a person who was exempt from the payment of rent or tax.
The Court also held that he was not a 'proprietor' as defined by the Act. Chunk 13: Summary - In the case of a maufidar he must be a person who by or under the provisions contained in the Wajib ul arz applicable to his village, had the right to recover rent or revenue from persons holding land in such village.
In the petition under articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution, filed by the appellant in the High Court, it was nowhere asserted that even if he was regarded as a Maufidar it was not entered in the wajib with respect to any of his mauFi villages that he had a right to recovery rent or income from persons in such villages.
Chunk 14: Summary - The High Court of Maharashtra has dismissed an appeal by a former maufidar against an order of the Bombay High Court which had ordered him to pay a fine of 12,000 for not recovering rent or revenue from persons holding land in his villages.
Chunk 15: Summary - The High Court held that the contention that the villages had been assessed to land revenue, which was denied on behalf of the State of Madhya Pradesh, could not be accepted.
As for the other villages, in Schedules A and B of the petition of the appellant under articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution the High Court, in our opinion, rightly held, that the petition was not maintainable as these villages had not yet been recognised by the Government of India as the private property.
The Court also noted that the appellant's appeal against the decision of the Madhya Pradesh High Court on the issue of land revenue was dismissed on the basis that it was not maintainedable.