The Corporation agreed to make available to the contractors such equipment as was necessary and suitable for the Construction aforesaid.
The Contractors are charged the actual price paid by the Corporation for such equipment.
Chunk 3: Summary - The equipment thus supplied by the Corporation to the Contractors was classified into two groups, Group A and Group B, as detailed in Schedule No. 2.
The machinery in Group A was to be taken over from the Contractors after the completion of the work at their "residual value"<n>The equipment in Group B was to become the property of the Contractors when its full price had been paid by them.
Chunk 4: Summary - The Superintendent rejected the contention raised on behalf of the Corporation that it was not liable to pay the tax in respect of the machinery sup plied to the Contractors.<n>The Corporation went up in appeal to the Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax against the said order of assessment.
Chunk 6: Summary - The application was made on December 22, 1953, but when the application for making a reference to the High Court came up for hearing before the Board of Revenue on May 20, 1954, and after the parties had been heard, counsel for the Corporation sought leave of the Board to withdraw questions (a) and (c) from the proposed reference and the Board passed the following order: "Leave is sought by the learned advocate for the petitioner to drop questions.
After hearing the parties, a Division Bench of the high court held that the question of whether the terms of the agreement amount to sale transactions with the Contractors and taking over by the Corporation amounts to repurchase and referred the matter to the Board for its decision.
Chunk 7: Summary - On July 13, 1956, the Corporation made an application headed as under article 132(1) of the Constitution and prayed that the High Court "be pleased to grant leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of India and grant the necessary certificate that this case is otherwise a fit case for appeal"<n>The Corporation at the time of the hearing of the application appears to have raised other questions as would appear from the following extract from the judgment and order of the high court dated January 31, 1957: 527 "It was conceded by learned counsel for the petitioner that the case does not fulfill the requirements of Article 133(1)" but the argument is that leave may be granted.
The Corporation also raised the issue of whether the transaction in question amounted to a sale within the meaning of section 2(g) of the Act. Chunk 8: Summary - We do not consider that this case satisfies the requirements of article 132(1) of the Constitution and the petitioner is not entitled to grant of a certificate for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court.<n>The question at issue was purely a matter of construction of section 2(g) of the Bihar Sales Tax Act and that question was decided by this Court in favour of the State of Bihar and against the petitioner.<n>No such question was dealt with or decided by the High Court in the reference.
Chunk 9: Summary - The Corporation moved this Court and obtained special leave to appeal under article 136 of the Constitution.
Chunk 10: Summary - The High Court ruled that the additional grounds of attack set out above are open to the Corporation.
The high court's decision was made in its advisory capacity under the advisory provision of the Act. Chunk 11: Summary - The High Court could not have expressed its opinion on any matter other than the question actually before it as a result of the reference made by the Board of Revenue.
Chunk 12: Summary - The Corporation will supply to the Contractor the machinery mentioned in Schedule No. 2, Group A and Group B below.
The equipment shall remain the property of the Corporation until the full prices thereof have been realised from the Contractor.
Chunk 13: Summary - The total approximate cost of the machinery in Group A is estimated to be Rs. 42,63,305.<n>The remaining items of this group will be taken over by the Corporation at their residual value taking into account the actual number of hours worked and the standard life of such machinery for which Schedule F.
Then follow certain conditions in respect of equipment in Group B, in these words: "The Corporation will assume the total life to be 30,000 hours and assuming that the machinery will be properly looked after during the period of its operation.
In the latter case the equipment will be removed from the premises of the Contractor only when it is declared surplus and the Corporation will be in possession of it.
Chunk 15: Summary - In respect of the machinery which shall have been delivered to the Contractor on or before the 31st of December 1950, their cost shall be recovered from the Contractor in eighteen equal instalments beginning with January 1951 .<n>The Corporation will consider the date or dates when it could recover the cost on account of these equipment.
After approximately two thirds of total cost or an amount of Rs. 28,43,000 (Rupees twenty eight lakhs forty three thousand) approximately has been recovered from a contractor for these equipment by the Corporation.
Chunk 16: Summary - The following conditions shall apply to all equipments, i.e., those included in Group A and B above and others, if any (a) The Contractor shall continuously maintain proper machine condition and (b) The Corporation shall be fully satisfied that their residual life at the time of 531 their being finally handed over to the Corporation shall under no circumstances fall below one third of their respective standard life as agreed upon by the Corporation and the Contractor." Then follow terms and conditions in respect of Group 'B ' which are not relevant to our purpose.
Thereafter, the following conditions appear: "In respect of equipments whether in group A or B made available by the corporation to the Contractor.
In the case of Group A, the Contractor shall assess the, extent to which they have already been depreciated and thereby arrive at, their residual value; and (c) that the recovery or refund of the amount payable by or to the contractor on account of these equipments will be decided only if the Corporation is fully satisfied .
Chunk 17: Summary - The Contractor shall maintain all such equipments in good running condition and shall regularly and efficiently give service to all plant and machinery, as may be required by the Corporation's Chief Engineer who shall have the right to inspect, either personally or through his authorised representatives all such plant and equipment and the machine cards maintained in respect thereof at mutually convenient hours.
(c) No item of equipment made available by the corporation on loan or hire shall at any time be removed from the work site under any circumstances until the full cost thereof has been recovered from the Contractor and thereafter only if in the opinion of the Consulting Engineer the removal of such item or items is not likely to impede the satisfactory performance of the plant or machinery.
Chunk 18: Summary - No item of equipment or material belonging to the Contractor but towards the cost of which money has been advanced by the Corporation shall at any time be removed from the work site under any circumstances until the amount of money so advanced has been recovered from the Contractor by 532 the Corporation .<n>The Corporation shall supply to the contractor whatever spares have been procured or ordered for the equipment already supplied or to be supplied by the corporation under the terms of this Agreement and that thereafter the replenishment of the stock of spares shall be entirely the responsibility of the Contractor who shall therefore take active steps in time to procure fresh spares so as to maintain a sufficient reserve.
Chunk 19: Summary - The terms and conditions of the contract between the Corporation and a contractor for the supply of spare parts for the Corporation's equipment are set out below.
The Corporation is required to provide the contractor with a complete list of all the spares which it has procured or ordered for the equipment to be supplied to the Contractor.
In order to enable the Contractor to take active steps for planning the procurement of additional spares in advance, the Corporation shall forthwith furnish to him a full list of the equipment that has been supplied to him.
Chunk 20: Summary - The Corporation made available to the Contractors different kinds of machinery and equipment detailed in Group A of the approximate value of Rs. 42,63,000 odd, for which the price paid by the Corporation inclusive of freight, insurance, customs duty etc.
But the machinery and the equipment so 533 was to remain the property of the Corporation until the, full price thereof had been realised from the Contractors.
Chunk 21: Summary - The Corporation will take over from the contractors items 1 and 14, specifically referred to above, and the other items in Group A at their "residual value" calculated on the basis indicated in the paragraph following the description of the machinery and the equipments.
Out of the total cost thus made realisable from the Contractors two thirds, namely, Rs. 28,42,000 approximately, has to be realised in any case.<n>The Corporation had to consider the date or dates of the "taking over" of the equipment after assessing the extent to which it 534 had depreciated as a result of the working on the project.
Chunk 23: Summary - The Corporation was bound to take them over only if it was satisfied that their "residual life" was not less than one third of the standard life fixed by the parties.<n>It is clear from the terms and conditions quoted above that there was no right in the contractors to return any of the machinery and equipments at any time they liked, or found it convenient to do so.<n>The contractors are required to "continuously maintain proper machine cards showing certain relevant particulars" and it is their duty to maintain the equipments in good running condition and to regularly and effectively service them.<n>No item of machinery and equipment could be removed by the contractors under any circumstances until the full cost thereof had been recovered.
Chunk 24: Summary - When spare parts are supplied to the Contractors by the Corporation, they shall be liable for the actual price of those parts inclusive of freight, insurance and customs duty.
Those substantially are the terms of the contract between the parties and the sole question for determination in this appeal is whether, in respect of the machinery and equipments admittedly supplied by the corporation to the contractors, it was a mere 535 contract of hiring, as contended on behalf of the appellant Corporation, or a sale or a hire purchase, as the respondent State.
The appellant Corporation is appealing the decision of the High Court of Justices of the Supreme Court of the Commonwealth of Australia in which the Court held that it was not a matter of law for the Court to decide on the issue of whether the contract was a sale of hiring or a purchase of equipment.
Chunk 26: Summary - When rights in third parties have been created by acts of parties or by operation of law, the question, which does not arise here, may arise as to what exactly were the rights and obligations of the parties to the original contract.<n>It is equally well settled that for the purpose of determining as to which category a particular contract comes under, the court will look at the substance of the agreement and not at the mere words describing the category.
Chunk 27: Summary - The Court held that there was no right reserved to the contractors to return the goods at any time that they found it convenient or necessary.
The contractors were not bound under the terms to return any of the machinery or the equipments, nor was the Corporation bound to take them back unconditionally.
Chunk 28: Summary - The Supreme Court of India has ruled that a contract of hiring between a corporation and its contractors is not inconsistent with the terms of the agreement between the parties.
The Court ruled that the Corporation was not liable for the maintenance and depreciation of the machinery and equipment purchased by the contractors.