Chunk 1: Summary - On August 28, 1956, Sharda Singh was transferred from the night shift to the day shift in accordance with para 9 of the Standing Orders governing the workmen in the appellant mills.
Chunk 2: Summary - On September 1, 1956, he submitted an application to the General Manager to the effect that he had reported for duty on August 30, at 10 30 p.m. and had worked during the whole night, but had not been marked present.
Chunk 3: Summary - On September 5, 1956, the General Manager replied to the letter of September 1, and told the respondent that his transfer from one shift to the other had been ordered on 592 August 28.<n>Instead of obeying the order which was made in the normal course and report for work as directed he had deliberately disobeyed the order and reported for work on August 30 in the night shift.
The General Manager therefore called upon the tribunal to find that the order of transfer was in breach of the provisions of section 33 of the Labour Act of 1956.
Their case was that transfer from one shift to another was within the power of the management and could not be said to be an alteration in the terms and conditions of service to the prejudice of the workman .<n>The appellant mills also pointed out that a domestic inquiry was being held into the subsequent conduct of the respondent and prayed that proceedings in the application should be stayed until the domestic inquiry is concluded.
Chunk 5: Summary - On March 5, 1957, the General Manager passed an order, that in view of the serious misconduct of the respondent and looking into his past records, he should be dismissed, but as an industrial dispute was pending then, he ordered that the permission of the industrial tribunal should be taken before the order of dismissal was passed and an application should be made for such permission under section 33 of the Act. On March 1, 1957, a notification was issued by which 10th March, 1957 was fixed for the coming into force of certain provisions of the Central Act, No.XXXVI of 1956, by which sections 33 and 33 A were amended.
Chunk 7: Summary - In view of a change in the law, the appellant mills thought that as the misconduct of the respondent in the present case was not connected with the dispute then pending adjudication, they were entitled to dismiss him after paying him one month 's wages and applying for approval of the action taken by them.
Later, on April 2, 19579 an order of dismissal was passed by the general manager after tendering one month's wages to the respondent.
Chunk 8: Summary - On April 18, 1957, an interim order was passed by the tribunal on this application by which as a measure of interim relief, the appellant mills were ordered to permit the respondent to work with effect from April 19 and the respondent was directed to report for duty.
On the same day, the respondent made another application under section 33 A in which he removed the defects and again complained that his dismissal on April 2, 1957, without the express permission of the tribunal, was a contravention of the provisions of section 33 of the Act. The tribunal ruled that the respondent's dismissal was unlawful and ordered the mills to pay him his full wages.
Chunk 9: Summary - It is not clear what has happened to the first application of September 4,1956, in which the respondent complained that his conditions of service had been altered to his prejudice by his transfer from one shift to another .<n>The appellant mills gave a reply on May 14, 1957, to the last application under section 33 A and objected that there was no breach of section 33 of the Act, their case being that the amended section 33 applied to the order of dismissal passed on April 2, 1957.
On this date, the tribunal again passed an interim order, which was to the effect that as a measure of interim relief, the respondent should be permitted to work from May 17 and the respondent was directed to report for duty.
It was further ordered that in case the management failed to take him back, they would pay him his full wages with effect from the date he reported for duty .<n>The appellant mills filed a writ petition before the High Court.
Their main contention was that the tribunal had no jurisdiction to entertain an application under section 33 A of the Act in the circumstances of this case after the amended sections 33 and 33 A came into force from March 10, 1957.<n>In the alternative it was contended that it was the tribunal's responsibility to pass an order of reins.
Chunk 11: Summary - The High Court held on the first point that in view of section 30 of the Industrial Disputes (Amendment and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, No. XXXVI of 1956, the present case would be governed by section 33 as it was before the amendment and therefore the tribunal would have jurisdiction to entertain the complaint dated May 6, 1957, under section 33 A of the Act. The Court held that the order of the tribunal granting interim relief was within its jurisdiction and was justified.
Chunk 12: Summary - The Court of Appeal has ruled that an interim order passed by the tribunal in May 1957 is manifestly erroneous in law and cannot be supported .<n>The Court held that the tribunal had jurisdiction to pass such an order without making an interim award.
The Court also held that it would be wrong in law for the tribunal to grant reinstatement or full wages in case the employer did not take the workman back in its service as an interim measure.
It is clear that in case of a complaint under section 33 A based on dismissal against the provisions of section 33, the final order which the tribunal can pass in case it is in the final stage of the proceedings.
Chunk 13: Summary - The final order would be passed only if the employer fails to justify the dismissal before the tribunal .<n>This is a part of the dispute which the tribunal has to consider because the complaint made by the employee is to be treated as an industrial dispute and all the relevant aspects of the said dispute fall to be considered under section 33 A of the Companies Act. The employee would not succeed in obtaining an order of reinstatement merely by proving contravention of section 33 by the employer.
Chunk 14: Summary - It is not open to the tribunal to order reinstatement as an interim relief, for that would be giving the workman the very relief which he could get only if on a trial of the complaint the employer failed to justify the order of dismissal.
The interim relief ordered in this case was that the work (1) ; (2) ; 597 man should be permitted to work: in other words he was ordered to be reinstated; in the alternative it was ordered that if the management did not take him back they should pay him his full wages.
Chunk 15: Summary - The Court of Appeal has set aside the order of the High Court allowing reinstatement as an interim relief or in lieu thereof payment of full wages.