Chunk 1: Summary - This is a petition filed under article 32 of the Constitution of India in which the validity of the Orissa Mining Areas Development Fund Act,( , 1952 (XXVII of 1952) is challenged.
Chunk 3: Summary - The Orissa Estates Abolition Act, 1951, was passed by the Legislature of the State of Orissa in December, 1952, and received the assent of the Governor of Orissa on December 10, 1952.
Chunk 4: Summary - The Orissa Mining Areas Development Act Rules, 1955, have been duly notified in the State Gazette on January 25, 1955.
Chunk 6: Summary - According to the petition the cess levied under the impugned Act is not a fee but is in reality and in substance a levy in the nature of a duty of excise on the coal produced at the first petitioner 's Rampur colliery, and as such is beyond the legislative competence of the Orissa Legislature.<n>The petitioners further allege that even if the said levy is held to be a fee it would be similarly ultra vires having regard to the provisions of Entry 52 in List I read with Central Act LXV of 1951 and Entry 54 in List II of the Seventh Schedule of the same Act. The petitioners have filed a petition in the High Court of Orissa challenging the legality of the Act and the manner in which it has been implemented.
Chunk 7: Summary - The Petitioners have applied for a writ of mandamus or a writ in the nature of the said writ or any other writ, order or direction prohibiting the respondents from enforcing any of the provisions of the impugned Act against the first petitioner.
Chunk 8: Summary - The Court held that the legislative competence of the State Legislature to impose the same cannot be successfully challenged.
The Court directed that a notice should be served on the learned Attorney General on the issue of whether even if the levy imposed by the impugned Act is a fee relatable to Entries 23 and 66 in List II of the Seventh Schedule, it would nevertheless be ultra vires having regard to the provisions of Entry 54 in List I read with Central Act LIII of 1948.
The Court also directed that the case should be set down for hearing on the question of whether there is repugnancy with the Central Act XXXII of 1947, which provides that no tax or fee can be imposed on an entry relatable to any other entry in the same Schedule.
Chunk 9: Summary - The Court of Appeal has upheld a decision by the High Court in the case of Matthews v Chicory Marketing Board .<n>The Court ruled that there was no need for the Court to consider the question of whether the levy imposed by the Act amounts to a fee.
In this case the Court considered the difference between the concept of tax and that of a fee, and concluded that the Act did not impose a fee on the appellants.
Chunk 10: Summary - A tax is imposed for public purposes and is not, and need not be supported by any consideration of service rendered in return, a fee is levied essentially for services rendered and as such there is an element of quid pro quo between the person who pays the fee and the public authority which imposes it.
When the Legislature decides to render a specific service to any area it is not open to the said area or to the class of persons to plead that they do not want the service and therefore they should be exempt from the payment of the cess.<n>Cases may arise where under the guise of levying a fee Legislature may attempt to impose a tax.
In the case of such a colourable exercise of legislative power courts would have to scrutinise the scheme of the levy very carefully .<n>In regard to fees there is, and must always be, co relation between the fee collected and the service intended to be rendered.
Chunk 12: Summary - The distinction between a tax and a fee is important, and it is recognised by the Constitution.
Several Entries in the Three Lists empower the appropriate Legislatures to levy taxes; but apart from the power of levy taxes thus conferred each List specifically refers to the power to levy fees in respect of any of the matters covered in the said List excluding of course the fees taken in any Court.
The Court held that the question of whether a particular cess levied by a statute amounts to a fee or tax would always be a question of fact to be determined in the circumstances of each case.
Chunk 13: Summary - The learned judge examined the scheme of the Madras Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1951 (Madras Act XIX of 195 1) and observed that the money raised by the levy of the contribution is not earmarked or earmarked for any purpose.<n>The learned judge also noted that "the material fact which negatives the theory of fees in the present case is that there is no earmarked money for the services rendered to the religious institutions by the Government of the State of Tamil Nadu or for any other purpose." The case was brought by Sri Lakshmindra Thirtha Swamiar of Sri Shirur Mutt.
He challenged the provisions of Section 76(1) of the Act, which requires religious institutions to pay to the Government annual contribution not exceeding 5% of their income for services rendered by the said Government.
The same point arose before this Court in respect of the Orissa Hindu Religious Endowments Act, 1939, as amended by amending Act 11 of 1952 in Mahant Sri Jagannath Ramanuj Das vs The, State of Orissa (1) .<n>Mukherjea, J., who again spoke for the Court, upheld the validity of section 49 which imposed the liability to pay the specified contrib.
The Court held that the provisions of Section 76(1) of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
Chunk 15: Summary - The scheme of the impugned Act was examined and it was noticed that the collections made under it are not merged in the general public revenue and are not appropriated in the manner laid down for appropriation of expenses for other public purposes.<n>The same view was taken by this Court in regard to section 58 of the Bombay Public Trust Act, 1950 (Act XXIX of 1950) which imposed a similar contribution for a similar purpose in Ratilal Panachand Gandhi vs The State of Bombay (2).
It would thus be seen that the tests which have to be applied in determining the character of any impugNED levy have been l The Bombay High Court has ruled that the State of Maharashtra has violated the provisions of the Act by imposing a tax on the annual income of every Mutt or temple having an annual income exceeding Rs. 250 for services rendered by the State Government.
The Court held that the tax imposed on the Mutts and temples does not constitute a fund which is contemplated by the Act, and this fund is specifically set apart for the rendering of services involved in carrying out the provisions.
P. Kutti Keya vs The State of Madras (3), the Madras High Court was called upon to consider the validity of section 11 of the Madras Commercial Crops Markets Act 20 of 1933 and Rules 28(1) and 28 (3) framed thereunder.
Chunk 17: Summary - The Privy Council had to deal with the validity of a forest protection impost levied by the relevant section of the Forest Act R.
The lands in question were statutorily exempt from taxation, and it was urged against the legitimacy of the impost that the levy of the said impost was disproportionate to the services rendered to the notified area and thus made the levy a fee and not a tax was not accepted by the Court.
In Attorney General for British Columbia vs Esquimalt and Nanaimo Railway Co. Chunk 18: Summary - The Privy Council has upheld a decision by the Court of Appeal which ruled that a tax on land owned by the Province of Guernsey was unlawful.
Chunk 19: Summary - The Court of Appeal for the Ontario Superior Court of Justice has ruled that the Province of Ontario's decision to charge a fee for a special service to the lands in question was in reality an item in public service itself, and so the element of quid pro quo was absent.
In the case of the land in question, the Court ruled that there was no provision in the law that provided for the payment of a fee to be charged to the general public for the services of the Province.
Chunk 20: Summary - In Parton vs Milk Board (Victoria)(1) the validity of the levy imposed on dairymen and owners of milk depots by section 30 of the Milk Board Act of 1933 as amended by subsequent Acts of 1936 1939 was (1) ; 70 550 challenged, and it was held by Dixon, J., that the levy of the said contribution amounted to the imposition of a duty of excise.
Chunk 21: Summary - The Orissa High Court has dismissed a petition filed by a former member of the Orissa Mining Corporation challenging the imposition of a levy on the corporation by the State Government.
The court ruled that the provisions of the Mining Areas Development Fund Act, 2007 have not been passed by the Orissa legislature and cannot be relied on by Mr. Amin.
The Court also ruled that there was no provision in the Act to provide for the provision of amenities such as communications, water supply and electricity for the better development of any area in the State of Orissa where any mine is situated or to provide the welfare of the residents or to workers in any such areas within which persons employed in a mine or a group of workers employed in such areas are employed.
The High Court of Orissa ruled that this provision of the Act does not apply to the persons on whom the levy was imposed.
Chunk 23: Summary - Section 5(2) requires that there shall be paid to the credit of the fund the proceeds of the cess recovered under section 4 for each mining area during the quarter after deducting expenses, if any, for collection and recovery.<n>The fund has to be utilised to meet expenditure incurred in connection with such measures which in the opinion of the State Government are necessary or expedient for providing amenities like communications, water supply and electricity, for the better development of the minin.
Chunk 25: Summary - Section 7 deals with the appointment and functions of the statutory authorities to carry out the purpose of the Act. Section 8 confers on the State Government power to 552 make rules.
Chunk 28: Summary - Section 5 shows that the cess levied does not become a part of the consolidated fund and is not subject to an appropriation in that behalf.<n>It was probably felt that some additions should be made to the special fund, and so section 5 (3) contemplates that grants from the State Government and local authorities should be added to the fund to cover the costs of carrying out the purpose of the Act.<n>The Act is intended to render service to the specified area and to the class of persons who are subjected to the levy of the tax.
It is also relevant in determining the question as to whether the Act is meant to render services to those who are subject to the tax, and whether it is to be used for the purpose for which it is levied.
Chunk 29: Summary - The cess is levied against the class of persons owning mines in the notified area and it is levied to enable the State Government to render specific services.
Chunk 30: Summary - Section 4(2) provides that the rate of such levy shall not exceed 5 per centum of the valuation of the minerals at the pit's mouth .<n>It is, however, urged that the cess levied by section 4(2) is in substance and reality a duty of excise.
In other words it is the value of minerals produced which is the basis for calculating cess payable by mine owners, and that precisely is the nature in which duty of Excise is levied under Entry 84 of the Income Tax Act, 1961.
Chunk 31: Summary - The Supreme Court has ruled that the Central Government has the power to impose a tax on minerals produced from mines.
The Court held that the provisions of the Mines and Mineral Development Act, 1959 (MMD Act) empower the Government to impose such a tax.
Section 4(2) of the MMD Act provides that the State Legislature can levy a fee in respect of mines and mineral development under the control of the Union.
The court held that it is not disputed that under Entry 23 in List II read with Entry 66 in the said List the State .<n>The Court also held that there is no doubt that under MMD the State legislature can impose a fee on the mining of minerals produced in India.
Chunk 32: Summary - The State Legislature is competent to levy a fee in respect of mines and mineral development, if the statute passed by a State Legislature in substance and in effect imposes a duty of excise it is travelling outside its jurisdiction and is trespassing on the legislative powers of Parliament.
The Court held that the State Legislature was competent to impose the fee in the first place.
Chunk 33: Summary - It is significant that the petitioners do not seriously suggest that the services intended to be rendered are a cloak and not genuine, or that the taxes levied have no relation to the said services or that they are unreasonable and excessive.
Chunk 35: Summary - The Federal Court has rejected the argument that the tax imposed by the Punjab Urban Immoveable Property 'tax Act XVII of 1940 was in reality a tax on income within the meaning of Item 54 in List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution Act of 1935, and as such it was not covered by Item 42 in List II of the said Schedule.
The Court held that the basis of the tax was the amount of the annual value of the buildings and lands situated in the rating areas shown in the schedule to this Act. The Federal Government may by notification in official gazette direct in respect of each such rating area.
The Tax Act provides that there shall be charged, levied and paid an annual to tax on buildings and land situated in these rating areas at such rate not exceeding twenty per centum of their annual value.
The court held that it was rejected on the ground that the Act was in pith and substance a tax in substance on lands and buildings covered byItem 42.
Chunk 36: Summary - The Income Tax Act has adopted the annual value as the standard for determining the income it must necessarily follow that if the same standard is employed as a measure for any other tax that tax becomes a tax on income.
The Court held that the Act had adopted the same basis for leaving the impost as the Income tax Act and the said basis determined its character whatever may be the appearance in which it was purported to be levied.
Chunk 37: Summary - The two taxes, the one levied on the manufacturer in respect of his goods and the other on the vendor in relation to his sales may in one sense overlap, but in law there is no overlapping; the taxes are separate and distinct .<n>In the case of Sir Byramjee Jeejeebhoy vs The Province of Bombay, the Bombay High Court held that "a duty of excise is primarily a duty levied on a manufacturer or producer in respect to the commodity manufactured or produced.
Chunk 38: Summary - The question was whether the tax authorised by the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1939, was a tax on the sale of goods or was a duty of excise, and the Privy Council held it was the former and not the latter.
Therefore, in our opinion, the mere fact that the levy imposed by the impugned Act has adopted the method of determining the rate of the levy by reference to the minerals produced by the mines would not by itself make the levy a duties of excise.<n>The method thus adopted may be relevant in considering the character of the impost but its effect must be weighed along with and in the light of the other relevant circumstances.
Chunk 39: Summary - The Court held that the cess levied by the impugned Act is neither a tax nor a duty of excise but is a fee.
The next question which arises is, even if the fee is not a fee, its validity is still open to challenge because the legislative competence of the State Legislature under Entry 23 is subject to the provisions of List I with respect to regulation and development under the control of the Union .<n>This entry reads thus: "Regulation of mines and mineral development to the extent to which such regulation or development is declared by the Union is declared"<n>The Court also held that it is not permissible to challenge the vires of the Act only on the ground that the method adopted by it for the recovery of the impost can be and is generally adopted in levying a duties of excise.
Chunk 40: Summary - The jurisdiction of the State Legislature under Entry 23 is subject to the limitation imposed by the latter part of the said Entry.
In other words, if a Central Act has been passed which contains a declaration by Parliament as required by Entry 54, and if the said declaration covers the field occupied by the impugned Act, the Act would be ultra vires, not because of any repugnance between the two statutes but because State Legislature had no jurisdiction to pass the law.
Chunk 41: Summary - The Central Act was passed to provide for the regulation of mines and oil fields and for the development of minerals.
We are, however, concerned with the operation of the said Act in 1952, and at that time it applied to mines as well as oil fields .<n> Section 2 of the Act contains a declaration as to the expediency and control by the Central Government.
Section 4 of the Act provides that no mining lease shall be granted after the commencement of this Act otherwise than in accordance with the rules made under this Act. Section 5 empowers the Central Government to make rules by notification for regulating the grant of mining leases or for prohibiting the granting of such leases in respect of any mineral or in any area.
Chunk 43: Summary - No rules have been framed by the Central Government in regard to the levy and collection of any fees.
No difficulty in holding that the declaration covers the field of conservation and development of minerals, and the said field is indistinguishable from the field covered by the impugned Act. What Entry 23 provides is that the legislative competence of the State Legislature is subject to the provisions of List I with respect to regulation and development under the control of the Union, and Entry 54 in List I requires a declaration by Parliament by law that regulation and deve.
Chunk 44: Summary - Parli: It is not necessary that rules should be made or enforced; all this required is a declaration by Parliament that it is expedient in the public interest to take the regulation and development of mines under the control of the Union .<n>The test must be whether the legislative declaration covers the field 561 or not.
Chunk 45: Summary - When the Dominion Act was passed in 1948 the legislative powers of the Central and Provincial Legislatures were governed by the relevant Entries in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution Act of 1935.
The Court held that the Central Act has been continued under article 372(1) of the Constitution as an existing law.
Chunk 47: Summary - The Supreme Court of Canada has upheld a lower court's decision to dismiss a challenge to the constitutionality of a law passed by the Ontario Provincial Legislature.
The Court of Appeal for the Ontario Superior Court of Justice ruled that the Provincial Legislature had violated the provisions of the Ontario Act for the purpose of making changes to existing laws.
In the absence of a specific provision in the Act, the Court ruled that no Provincial Legislature could have trespassed on the field covered by the said Act before the Constitution, and that the position would and must be the same even after the Constitution came into force.
Chunk 48: Summary - The petitioners contend that as a result of this clause the declarations made by the Dominion Legislature in section 2 of the Central Act must now be held to be the declaration made by Parliament.
Chunk 49: Summary - Section 16 of the Constitution of India provides that an authority competent at the date of the passing of the existing law to exercise any powers or authorities, or to discharge any functions with a corresponding new authority which has been constituted by or under the Constitution.
Chunk 50: Summary - The High Court of Justice of the Supreme Court of New Zealand has ruled that the Dominion Legislature is not a competent authority.
Chunk 51: Summary - It It is impossible to hold that the Dominion Legislature is an authority which was competent to exercise any power or to discharge any function under the existing law .<n>The Constitution Act of 1935 had been repealed by the Constitution and it was not, and could not obviously be, the law of 1935.
Chunk 52: Summary - The Supreme Court of New Zealand has ruled that the competence of the Dominion Legislature which flowed from the relevant provisions of the Constitution Act of 1935 is wholly outside this clause.<n>The Court held that the declaration by the Dominion legislature implied in section 2 of Act LIII of 1948 can, by virtue of cl.
Chunk 53: Summary - Section 2 of Act LIII of 1948 provides that there is a declaration by Parliament as suggested by the petitioners and the learned Additional Solicitor General.
16 of the Adaptation of Laws Order and article 372 can be construed as suggested in the Petitioners' petition as being in breach of the provisions of this Act. Chunk 54: Summary - The High Court of India has dismissed a petition filed by the Central Board of Excise and Customs (CBEC) challenging the validity of the Customs Act of 1948 and the provisions of the Act. The CBEC had sought to restrain the CBEC from enforcing the Act in the territory of India immediately before the appointed day.
The Court held that there was no occasion to make any adaptation in construing Act LIII of 1948 for the purpose of bringing the law into accord with the Constitution of India.
In the present case, the ASG and Mr. Amin argued that a clause in the Act empowers the Court to construe the law with such adaptations as may be necessary for the purposes of bringing it in accord with its provisions.
Incidentally the present case discloses that in regard to the requisite Parliamentary declaration, the Orissa legislature was competent to repeal the Act. Chunk 57: Summary - There is a lacuna which has not been covered by any clauses of the Adaptation of Laws Order; that, however, is a matter for Parliament to consider.<n>Mr. Amin contends that Entry 23 in List II is subject to the provisions in List I with respect to regulation and development under the control of the Union .<n>In this connection he relies on the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (LXV 567 of 1951).
Chunk 58: Summary - The Central Act, on the other hand, deals more directly with the control of all industries including of course the industry of coal.<n>This declaration is a declaration made by Parliament, and if the provisions of the Act read with the said declaration covered the same field as is covered by the impugned Act, it would undoubtedly affect the vires of that Act. But in dealing with this question it is important to bear in mind the doctrine of pith and substance.
Chunk 60: Summary - The object of the Act is to regulate the scheduled industries with a view to improvement and development of the service that they may render to the society, and thus assist the solution of the larger problem of national economy.<n>It is difficult to hold that the field covered by the declaration made by section 2 of this Act, considered in the light of its several provisions, is the same as the field that is the subject of the impugned Act. That being so, it cannot be said that as a result of Entry 52 read with Act LXV of the 1951, the vires of that Act can be successfully challenged.
The Act is relatable to Entries 23 and 66 in List II of the Seventh Schedule, and it is therefore not possible to successfully challenge the Act. Chunk 61: Summary - The Orissa High Court has ruled that the cess imposed by the Orissa State Legislature on all extracted minerals from any mine in any mining area at a rate not exceeding five per centum of the value of the minerals at the pit's mouth is a fee properly so called and not a duty of excise.
The Orissa Mining Areas Development Fund Act, No. XXVII of 1952, (hereinafter called the Act) was passed by the State Legislature in 1952 and imposed a cess on all extraction of minerals from all mining areas in the state.
The Court held that the Act is not in violation of the provisions of the Constitution of India and the Rules of the High Court of India.
Chunk 62: Summary - The scheme of the Act, as appears from section 3 thereof is to give power to the State Government, whenever it thinks it necessary and to provide amenities, like communications, water supply and electricity for the better development of any area in the State where .<n>in any mine is situated or to provide for the welfare of residents or workers in any such area within.<n>A notification under section 3 is made, after hearing objections from owners or lessees of mines.
Chunk 63: Summary - The cess so collected is credited to a fund called the Orissa Mining Area Development Fund created under section 5 of the Act, besides other amounts with which we are not concerned in this case.
Chunk 64: Summary - The petition has been opposed on behalf of the State of Orissa and the main contentions urged on its behalf are that the cess is a fee properly so called and not a duty of excise and therefore the Orissa State Legislature was competent to levy it and the two Central Acts do not affect that competence.<n>The Orissa Legislature was not competent to pass the Act because of two Acts of the Central Legislature and Parliament, namely, The Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, No. LIII of 1948 and The Industries (Development and Regulation) Act No. LXV of 1951, the petition alleges.
Chunk 65: Summary - The first question therefore that falls for consideration is whether the cess in this ' ease is a tax or a fee.
In the first of them, namely, The Commissioner, Hindu Religious Endowments, Madras vs Sri Lakshmindra Thirtha Swamiar of Sri Shirur Mutt, it was pointed out that "though levying of fees is only a particular form of the exercise of the taxing power of the State, our Constitution has placed fees under a separate category for purposes of legislation and at the end of each one of the three legislative lists, it has given a power to the particular legislature to legislate on the imposition of fees"
Chunk 66: Summary - The author points out that the essence of a tax is compulsion, that is to say, it is imposed under statutory power without the taxpayer's consent and the payment is enforced by law.<n>As to fees, it was pointed out that "a 'fee' is generally defined to be a charge for a special service rendered to individuals by some go.
Chunk 67: Summary - The amount of fee levied is supposed to be based on the expenses incurred by the Government in rendering the service, though in many cases the costs are arbitrarily assessed.
Chunk 68: Summary - All the collections went to the consolidated fund of the State and all the expenses had to be met not out of those collections but out of the general revenues by a proper method of appropriation as was done in the case of other government expenses.
Chunk 69: Summary - In the second case of Mahant Sri Jagannath Ramanuj Das vs The State of Orissa (1), a similar imposition by the Orissa Legislature came up for consideration.<n>In the first place, it must be levied in consideration of certain services which the individuals accepted either willingly or unwillingly.
Chunk 70: Summary - The Orissa imposition was held to be a fee because the collections made were not merged in the general public revenue and were meant for the purpose of meeting the expenses of the Commissioner and his office which was the machinery set up for due administration of the affairs of the religious institution.<n>The third case, namely, Ratilal Panachand Gandhi (1) ; 573 vs The State of Bombay (1) came from Bombay.
After referring to the two earlier cases, the Court held that the fee was not in accordance with the provisions of Section 50 of the Orissa Act. Chunk 71: Summary - Section 58 of the Income Tax Act provides for the payment of charges for expenses incidental to the regulation of public trusts and for carrying into effect the provisions of the Act. This fund was to be applied exclusively for payments for expenses for expenses incurred in the course of rendering services to the public.
The Act also provides that there must be co relation between the levy imposed and the expenses incurred by the State for the purpose of rendering such services.
Chunk 72: Summary - The Supreme Court of the U.S. has ruled that a tax imposed by the State of New York can be converted into a fee by the use of a fund created in which collections are credited and some services may be rendered to the persons from whom collections are made.
Chunk 73: Summary - The cess consists of a levy not exceeding five per centum of the value of the minerals at the pit 's mouth on all extracted minerals .<n> Prima facie such a levy is nothing more than nor less than a duty of excise, says the Hon'ble Chief Justice of India.<n>The cess has been imposed to raise funds for the provision of services to the persons from whom collections are made.
Chunk 74: Summary - The Act gives power to Parliament to impose duties of excise on all goods manufactured or produced in India with certain exceptions mentioned therein.
Reference may be made to Governor General in Council vs Province of Madras .<n>In that case, the point arose whether the sales tax imposed by the Madras Legislature was aduty of excise.
The Privy Council pointed out that (1) (1945) L.R. 72 I.A. 91.575 "in a Federal constitution in which there is a division of legislative powers between Central and Provincial legislatures, it appears to be inevitable that controversy should arise whether one or other of these powers should arise." The Act also provides for the exemption of certain medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol or any substance included in sub paragraph (b) of this entry.
Though sometimes a duty of excise may be imposed on first sales, it was separate and distinct imposts and in law do not overlap."<n>The decisions of the Federal Court in re The Central Provinces and Berar Sales of Motor Spirit and Lubricants Taxation Act, 1938 (1) and The Province of the Province of The Province, 1938 (2) were approved.
Chunk 77: Summary - The Orissa Legislature has levied a cess at a rate not exceeding five per centum on the value of minerals at the pit 's mouth on all extracted minerals.
The pith and substance of the cess in this case falls fairly and squarely within entry 84 of List I and is therefore aduty of excise, which cannot be levied by the Orissa State Legislature.
The provisions of the Act do not overlap with those of the Orissa Legislature's Act. Chunk 78: Summary - Section 9 Section 9 of Act LXV of 1951 lays down that there may be levied and collected as a cess for the purposes of that Act on all goods manufactured or produced in any scheduled industry as may be specified by the Central Government by notified order a duty of excise at a rate not exceeding two annas per centum of the value of the goods.
Chunk 79: Summary - The method employed for realising the cess is only a method of quantification of the fee and merely because of this, the pith and substance of the impost does not change from a fee to a duty of excise .<n>In Sir Byramjee Jeejeebhoy vs The Province of Bombay (1), a question arose with respect to a tax imposed on urban immovable property, whether it was a tax on lands and buildings.
The challenge was on the ground that it was tax on income or capital value within items 54 and 55 of List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Government of India Act and could not therefore be imposed by the Bombay Legislature.
It was held that the tax was a cess on land and buildings within the meaning of item 42 of List II of the Act. Chunk 80: Summary - The High Court held that the mode of assessment of a tax did not determine its character and one has to look to the essential character of the tax to decide whether it was a tax on income or on lands and buildings .<n>In the present case, however, the very mode of the levy of the cess is to tax the annual value of the land and buildings.
The very manner in which the tax is levied in this case is to be determined by the court.
Chunk 81: Summary - A distinction was made between a tax on land which is levied on the basis of its capital value and a tax which is on capital treating it as an asset itself.<n>The principle of quantification for purposes of a fee cannot be extended to (1) I.L.R. 578 such an extent as to convert what is in pith and substance a tax into a fee on that basis.
The basis of the levy was one per centum of the capital value of the land.<n>It was urged that this amounted to a capital levy within entry 54 of List I; but the court repelled that contention and held that the levy, which came within entry 42 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Government of India Act. Chunk 82: Summary - The Federal Court has ruled that it is not possible to turn levies which are in pith and substance taxes into fees, by the process of attaching certain services and creating a fund.
The Court also pointed out that "where there is an apparent conflict between an Act of the Federal Legislature and an Act, of the Provincial Legislature, we must try to resolve this issue." The court held that the "basic idea was to tax lands and some method had to be found for doing so and the method evolved, though it might look like a capital levy, was in pit and substance not so.
Chunk 83: Summary - The Court held that the method of imposing a duty of excise and the method employed in the Act for imposing a cess a matter which will be clear from the cesses imposed under the two Central Acts already refuting it.
The Court also held that in all these cases, one source of income of an individual was the basis of calculation while income tax or capital levy is generally on the total income or the total capital of a person.
In the present case, however, I see no difference between the way in which the Act imposed a duty on land and buildings and the manner in which it imposed a tax on land or buildings.
Or a similar graded fee, depending on its size determined by the number of men employed therein.<n>Where therefore the result of quantification is to bring a particular impost entirely within the ambit of a tax it would not be right to say that such an impost is still a fee, because certain services have to be rendered and a fund has been created in which collections of the impost are credited.<n>If this were permissible many taxes not otherwise leviable would be converted into fees by the simple device of creating a special fund and attaching certain services to be rendering from the amount in that fund.
Chunk 86: Summary - The fees can be levied on a total basis for a large number of services under various entries of Lists II and III of the Seventh Schedule of the State Legislature.
Chunk 87: Summary - The State Legislature is entitled to impose fees for rendering these services to the residents of a district .<n>Assume that a fund is created for rendering the services, these services are to be paid for by the residents in the district.
Chunk 88: Summary - The State legislature levies a consolidated fee for all these purposes at 10 per centum of the total net income on the residents of the district (excluding his agricultural income) as a measure of quantification of the fee.
Chunk 89: Summary - The Orissa High Court has ruled that the state government has the right to charge a fee for the provision of social security and other benefits to residents of the state.
The court held that the provisions of the Orissa Social Security Act, 1995, which provide for the welfare of residents and workers in the state, do not provide for a fee to be charged to meet the costs of providing these social security benefits.
Chunk 90: Summary - The Orissa State Legislature did not deliberately levy a cess as a fee in this case.
The motive of the legislature in such cases is irrelevant and it is the effect of the legislation that has to be seen.<n>The next contention on behalf of the State of Orissa is that if the cess is found to be in violation of the law, the matter will be taken up by the High Court.
The cess was imposed by the State legislature under item 84 of List I of the Orissa State Excise Act. The Act provides for a duty of excise to be imposed on items 13 and 17 of List II and 23 and 24 and 38 of List III.
Chunk 91: Summary - Tax on mineral rights is not justified as a fee, it is a tax under item 50 of List II of the Seventh Schedule.
The tax is not a fee but a tax on the mineral rights subject to any limitations imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development.
Chunk 92: Summary - There should be no difficulty in holding that taxes on mineral rights are taxes on the right to extract minerals and not taxes on minerals actually extracted .<n>In the absence of mining leases or sub leases there would be no way of levying tax on mineral right, 583.
Chunk 93: Summary - The present levy therefore under section 4 of the Act cannot be justified as a tax on mineral rights.<n>There can be no doubt therefore that taxes on mineral right are taxes of this nature and not taxes on minerals actually produced.
In the case of the present, the present levy is not the same as the tax which is imposed on the mineral rights of a person who works the mine and then leases it out to someone else.
Chunk 94: Summary - The Orissa High Court has dismissed a petition challenging the validity of the Orissa Mining Areas Development Fund Act, 1952.
The Court also held that the Act is beyond the constitutional competence of the Legislature to pass it.
The Act was not passed by the legislature in view of the two Central Acts (mentioned earlier) the Orissa Legislature was not capable of passing the Act, and the Court held that even if it is a fee, it is not necessary to consider the other point, raised on behalf of the petitioners.