Between the years 1943 and 1947, the Mills purchased 5,000 shares of Bank of India Ltd. At an extraordinary general meeting of the shareholders of the Bank held on May 6, 1948, a resolution was passed increasing the share capital of the bank and for that purpose offering new shares to the existing shareholders in the proportion of one new share for every three shares.
On receiving the circular letter, the Directors of the Mills passed the following resolution: "Resolved that the company having a holding of 5,000 ordinary shares in the capital of the bank of India Ltd. having now received an intimation from the said Bank that this company is entitled to get 1,6662, more ordinary shares on payment of .<n>Rs. 50 as capital and .50 as premium per each share and it is considered proper to invest in the sai
Chunk 3: Summary - The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has approved the issue of 1,666 shares of the Bank of India Ltd. to the shareholders of the Mills in the proportion of two shares per one ordinary share held by the Mills.
The Mills exercised the right to take over only 66 shares out of the shares offered by the Bank.
The appellants have filed an application with the Sebi seeking an order to restrain the Bank from issuing shares in the amount of Rs.1,666 crore to the Mills' shareholders.
Chunk 4: Summary - The assessment of the seven appellants and of other shareholders of the Mills was reopened under section 34(1)(a) of the Indian Income Tax Act by the Income Tax Officer on the footing that, the release by the Mills of the shares of the Bank of India amounted to a distribution of "dividend" and the value of the right released in favour of the shareholders though taxable 587 under section 12 of the Act, had escaped tax.
Chunk 5: Summary - The High Court reframed the question as follows: "Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case, the distribution of the right to apply for the shares of the Bank of India by Navjivan Mills Ltd., in favour of the assessees amounted to a distribution of "dividend"?" and answered it in the affirmative.<n>The High Court observed that the definition of 'dividend' in section 2(6A) was an inclusive and not an exhaustive definition, and even if the distribution could not be regarded as dividend within the extended meaning of that expression, it was still dividend within that ordinary meaning and was taxable as income in the hands of the appellants.
Chunk 6: Summary - The Court held that the High Court was not justified in having regard to the form of the question which expressly related to the distribution of the right to the Bank of India shares being dividend within the meaning of the definition in section 2(6A) of the Income Tax Act. The Court also held that there was no substance in the contention that "dividend" is defined as inclusive of various items and exclusive of certain others which it is not necessary to set out for the purpose of this appeal.
Chunk 7: Summary - The Tribunal had referred the question whether the distribution of the right to apply for the Bank of India shares amounted to distribution of dividend within the meaning of section 2(6A) and in answering that question, the High Court had to take into account both the normal and the extended meaning of that expression.
Chunk 8: Summary - The right to apply for the shares had a market value of Rs. 100 per share when the Bank of India offered them to its shareholders.
Chunk 9: Summary - The Board of Directors of the Bank of India has approved a dividend of Rs. 200 per share for the financial year ending March 31, 2015 .<n>This is in addition to the annual dividend declared by the Board in its annual report for the year ended March 31, 2014.
Chunk 10: Summary - The High Court has ruled that the distribution of the right to apply for and obtain two shares of the Bank of India (at half their market value) for each share held by the shareholders of the Mills amounted to distribution of dividend.<n>The Court held that the resolution did not purport to distribute the right amongst the shareholders as dividend.
We are therefore of the view that the High Court was right in holding that the Distribution of the Right to Apply For and obtain Two Shares Of The Bank Of India (At Half Their Market Value) amounted to Distribution of Dividend.