property taxes shall be payable in 559 advance in half yearly instalments on each first day of April and each first day of October . The provision as to half yearly instalment necessarily connotes an annual li ability . In other words , it means that the annual liability can be discharged by half yearly payments . Procedure has also been prescribed for recovery of the instalments by presentment of a bill , a notice of demand and then distress , and sale . Finally section 212 provides as follows : `` Property taxes due under this Act in respect of any building or land shall , subject to the prior payment of the land revenue , if any , due to the provincial , Government thereupon , be a first charge . . upon the said build ing or land . `` It creates a statutory charge on the building . Urban immove able property tax is leviable under section 22 of Part VI of the Bombay Finance Act , 1932 , on the annual letting value of the property . The duty to collect the tax is laid on the municipality and it does so in the same manner as in the case of the municipal property tax . Section 24 ( 2 ) ( b ) is in terms similar to section 212 of the Bombay Municipal Act . It makes the land or the building security for the payment of this tax also . For the purposes of section 9 of the Indian Income tax Act both these taxes , namely , the munici pal property tax as well as the urban immoveable property tax are of the same character and stand on the same foot ing . Mr. Munshi , the learned counsel for the appellant con tended that both the taxes are assessed on the annual value of the land or the building and are annual taxes , although it may be that they are collected at intervals of six months for the sake of convenience , that the income tax itself is assessed on an annual basis , that in allowing deductions all payments made or all liabilities incurred during the previ ous year of assessment should be allowed and that the taxes in question fell clearly within the language of section 9 ( 1 ) ( iv ) . The learned Attorney General , on the other hand , argued that although the taxes are assessed for the year the liability to pay them arises at the beginning 560 of each half year and unless a notice of demand is issued and a bill presented there is no liability to pay them and that till then no charge under section 212 of the Act could possibly arise and that the liability to pay being half yearly in advance , the charge is not an annual charge . It was also suggested that the taxes were a capital charge in the sense of the property being security for the payment . We are satisfied that the contentions raised by the learned Attorney General are not sound . It is apparent from the whole tenor of the two Bombay Acts that the taxes are in the nature of an annual levy on the property ' and are assessed on the annual value of the property each year . The annual liability can be discharged by half yearly instalments . The liability being an annual one and the property having been subjected to it , the provisions of clause ( iv ) of sub sec tion ( 1 ) of section 9 are immediately attracted . Great emphasis was laid on the word '' due '' used in section 212 of the Municipal Act and it was said that as the taxes do not become due under the Act unless the time for the payment arrives , no charge comes into existence till then and that the charge is not an annual charge . We do not think that this is a correct construction of section 212 . The words `` property taxes due under this Act '' mean property taxes for which a person is liable under the Act . Taxes payable during the year have been made a charge on the property . The liability and the charge both co exist and are co exten sive . The provisions of the Act affording facilities for the discharge of the liability do not in any way affect their true nature and character . If the annual liability is not discharged in the manner laid down by section 197 , can it be said that the property can not be sold for recovery of the whole amount due for the year ? The answer to this query can only be in the affirmative , i.e. , that the proper ty is liable to sale . In Commissioner of Income tax , Bombay vs Mahomedbhoy Rowji ( 1 ) Beaumont C.J. , while rejecting the claim for the deduction of the taxes , placed reliance on ( 1 ) I.L.R . 561 section 9 ( 1 ) ( v ) which allows a deduction in respect of any sums paid on account of land revenue . It was observed that land revenue stands on the same footing as municipal taxes and that as the legislature made a special provision for deduction of sums payable in regard to land revenue but not in respect of sums paid on account of municipal taxes that circumstance indicated that the deduction was not allowable . For the same purpose reference was also made to the provi sions of section 10 which deal with business allowances and wherein deduction of any sum paid on account of land reve nue , local rates or municipal taxes has been allowed . In the concluding part of his judgment the learned Chief Jus tice said that it was not necessary for him to consider