and so should not be included in his assessment . Though the decision proceeded on the principle that the outgoings were not part of the assessee 's income at all , the framers of the amending Act of 1939 wanted , apparently , to extend the principle , so far as the assessment of property was concerned , even to cases where obligatory payments had to be made out of the assessee 's income from the property charged with such payments , and the second sub clause , namely , `` where the property is subject to an annual charge not being a capital charge , the amount of such charge '' was added . It is this sub clause which the appellant invokes in support of its claim to deduction of the municipal and urban , property taxes in the present case . In view of the opening words of the newly added sub clause , the expression `` capital charge '' also used therein can not have reference to a charge on the property , and we think it must ( 1 ) I.L.R . 60 cal . 557 be understood in the same sense as in sub clause ( 1 ) ; that is to say , the first sub clause having provided for deduc tion of interest where a capital sum is charged on the property , this sub clause provides for a deduction of annual sums so charged , such sums not being capital sums , the limiting words being intended to exclude cases where capital raised on the security of the property is made repayable in instalments . In Commissioner of Income tax , Bombay vs Mahomedbhoy Rowji ( 1 ) , a Bench of the Bombay High Court considered the meaning of these words . As regards `` annual charge , '' Beau mont C.J . observed as follows : `` The words , I think , would cover a charge to secure an annual liability . '' Kania J. , as he then was , said as follows : `` I do not see how a charge can be annual unless it means a charge in respect of a payment to be made annually . '' This construction of the words has been followed in the judgment under appeal . In Gappumal Kanhaiya Lal vs Commissioner of Income tax ( 2 ) ( the connected appeal before us ) , the Bench of the Allahabad High Court agreed with the construction placed on these words in the Bombay case , i.e. , the words `` annual charge '' mean a charge to secure an annual liability . It is therefore clear that there is no conflict of judicial deci sions as to the meaning of the phrase `` annual charge '' occur ring in section 3 ( 1 ) ( iv ) and the meaning given is the natural meaning of these words . As to the phrase `` capital charge '' , Beaumont C.J . in the case above referred to took the view that the words mean a charge on capital . Kania J. , however , took a different view and observed that he was not prepared to accept the sugges tion that a document which provides for a certain payment to be made monthly or annually and charged on immoveable property or the estate of an individual becomes a capital charge . In the Allahabad judgment under appeal these ( 1 ) I.L.R . ( 2 ) I.L.R . 1944 All . 558 words were considered as not meaning a charge on capital . It was said that if an annual charge means a charge to secure the discharge of an annual liability , then , capital charge means a charge to secure the discharge of a liability of a capital nature . We think this construction is a natu ral construction of the section and is right . The determination of the point whether the taxes in dispute fall within the ambit of the phrase `` annual charge not being a capital charge '' depends on the provisions of the statutes under which they are levied . Section 143 of the City of Bombay Municipal Act , 1888 , authorises the levy of a general tax on all buildings and lands in the city . The primary responsibility to pay this property tax is on the lessor ( vide section 146 of the Act ) . In order to assess the tax provision has been made for the determination of the annual rateable value of the building in section 154 . Section 156 provides for the maintenance of an assessment book in which entries have to be made every official year of all buildings in the city , their rateable value , the names of persons primarily liable for payment of the property tax on such buildings and of the amount for which each building has been assessed . Section 167 lays down that the assess ment book need not be prepared every official year but public notices shall be given in accordance with sections 160 to 162 every year and the provisions o+ the said sec tions and of sections 163 and 167 shall be applicable each year . These sections lay down a procedure for hearing objections and complaints against entries in the assessment book . From these provisions it is clear ' that the liabil ity for the tax is determined at the beginning of each official year and the tax is an annual one . It recurs from year to year . Sections 143to 168 concern themselves with the imposition , liability and assessment of the tax for the year . The amount of the tax for the year and the liability for its payment having been determined , the Act then pre scribes for its collection in the chapter `` The collection of taxes. '' Section 197 provides that each of the