what the exact meaning of the words was and that it was suffi cient for him to say that it did not cover municipal taxes which are made a charge on the property under section 212 of the Bombay Municipal Act . Without determining the exact meaning of the words used by the statute it seems to us it was not possible to arrive at the conclusion that the taxes were not within the ambit of the clause . It is elementary that the primary duty of a Court is to give effect to the intention of the legislature as expressed in the words used by it and no outside consideration can be called in aid tO find that intention . Again reference to clause ( v ) of the section is not very helpful because land revenue is a charge of a paramount nature on all buildings and lands and that being so , a deduction in respect of the amount was mentioned in express terms . Municipal taxes , on the other hand , do not stand on the same footing as land revenue . The law as to them varies from province to province and they may not be necessarily a charge on property in all cases . The legis lature seems to have thought that so far as municipal taxes on property are concerned , if they fall within the ambit of clause ( iv ) , deduction will be claimable in respect of them but not otherwise . The deductions allowed in section 10 under the head `` Income from business '' proceed on a different footing and a construction of section 9 with the aid of section 10 is apt to mislead . 562 Kania J. in the above case in arriving at his conclusion was influenced by the consideration that these taxes were of a variable character , i.e. , liable to be increased or re duced under the various provisions of the Municipal Act and that the charge was in the nature of a contingent charge . With great respect , it may be pointed out that all charges in a way may be or are of a variable and contingent na ture . If no default is made , no charge is ever enforceable and whenever there is a charge , it can be increased or reduced during the year either by payment or by additional borrowing . In Moss Empires Ltd. vs Inland Revenue Commissioners ( 1 ) it was held by the House of Lords that the fact that certain payments were contingent and variable in amount did not affect their character of being annual payments and that the word , `` annual '' must be taken to have the quality of being recurrent or being capable of recurrence . In Cunard 's Trustees vs Inland Revenue Commissioners ( 2 ) it was held that the payments were capable of being recur rent and were therefore annual payments within the meaning of schedule D , case III , rule 1 ( 1 ) , even though they were not necessarily recurrent year by year and the fact that they varied in amount was immaterial . The learned Attorney General in view of these decisions did not support the view expressed by Kania J . Reliance was placed on a decision of the High Court of Madras in Mamad Keyi vs Commissioner of Income tax , Madras ( 3 ) , in which moneys paid as urban immoveable property tax under the Bombay Finance Act were disallowed as inadmis sible under section 9 ( 1 ) ( iv ) or 9 ( 1 ) ( v ) of the Indian Income tax Act . 'This decision merely followed the view expressed in Commissioner of income tax , Bombay vs Mahomedb hoy Rowji ( 4 ) and was not arrived at on any independent or fresh reasoning and is not of much assistance in the deci sion of the case . The Allahabad High Court ( 1 ) ( 2 ) [ 1948 ] 1 A.E.R . 150 . ( 3 ) I.L.R . ( 4 ) I.L.R . 563 in Gappumal Kanhaiya Lal vs Commissioner of Incometax ( 1 ) ( the connected appeal ) took a correct view of this matter and the reasoning given therein has our approval . The result is that this appeal is allowed and the two questions which were referred to the High Court by the Income tax Tribunal and cited above are answered in the affirmative . The appellants will have their costs in the appeal . Appeal allowed .