all the parties that the defendants would pay the royalty in future to Shibsaran and Sitcram . If the matter had stood there , the learned Advocate for the appellant could not have seriously contested the position , but he vehemently argued that when the agreement was not to pay the same amount of royalty or commission as previously agreed to but an altered amount of royalty and commission , the document should be held to fall within the mischief of section 17 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the ( 1 ) P.C . 839 . The answer to this contention is , as I have stated just now , to be found in the Full Bench decision of this court : '' [ see Charu Chandra Mitra 's case ( ) ] . It was there held that a mere alteration of the rent reserved does not make the transaction a new lease so as to bring it within clause ( d ) of subsection ( 1 ) . We are unable to share this view . It oversimplifies the compromise transaction which , in our opinion , involves much more than a mere alteration of the royalties stipulated for in the previous pattas executed by Kumar . Nor can we accept the suggestion of Mr. Chatterjee for the respondents theft the compromise operated as an assignment to the Singhs by Kumar of the latter 's reversion under the `` lease granted to the Deoshis and all that the latter did was to acknowledge the Singhs as their landlords and attern to them . On tiffs view it was said that the transaction would not fall under clause ( d ) , although it would fall under clause ( b ) but then would be saved by the exception in clause ( vi ) of sub section ( 2 ) . The argument , however , overlooks that Kumar had leased the area of 5,800 bighas to the Singhs by his patta dated 11th March , 1921 , and the compromise by providing that the Singhs should pay the reduced royalty of 1a . per ton in respect of the whole area preserved Kumar 's reversion intact . He could not therefore be deemed to have assigned any part of his inter est in 5,800 bighas as landlord to the Singhs who continue to hold the entire extent as tenants under him . What the compromise really did was . as stated already , to bring the Singhs and the Deoshis into a new legal relationship as underlessor and under lessee in respect of 500 bighas which were the subject matter of the title suit ; in other words , its legal effect was to create a perpetual underlease be tween the Singhs and the Deoshis which would clearly fall under clause ( d ) but for the circumstance that it was to take effect only on condition float the Singhs paid Rs . 8,000 to Kumar within 2 months ( 1 ) 840 thereafter . As pointed out by the Judicial Committee in Hemanta Kumar 's case ( 1 ) `` An agreement for a lease , which a lease is by the statute declared to include , must , in their Lordships ' opinion , be a document which effects an actual demise and operates as a lease . The phrase which in the context where it occurs and in the statute in which it is found , must in their opinion relate to some document which creates a present and immediate interest in the land. '' The compromise decree expressly provides that unless the sum of Rs . 8,000 was paid within the stipulated time the Singhs were not to execute the decree or to take possession of the disputed property . Until the payment was made it was impossible to determine whether there would be any under lease or not . Such a contingent agreement is not within clause ( d ) and although it is covered by clause ( b ) . is excepted by clause ( vi ) of sub section ( ' 2 ) . We therefore agree with the conclusion of the High Court though on dif ferent grounds and dismiss the appeal with costs . Appeal dismisseel .