this decree , nor shall they be competent to take posses sion of the land in dispute . The defendants 1 and 2 within one month from the date of payment of Rs . 8,000 as aforesaid to defendant No . 3 shall execute a new Kabuliyat in favour of the plaintiff in respect of the modified terms stated above , i.e. , on the condition to pay commission at the rate of 2a . per ton . In the new patta which defendant No . 3 will execute in favour of the plaintiffs he shall embody the condition that the annual minimum royalty will be Rs . 6,000 instead of Rs . 8,000 and commission will be at the rate of la . 9p . per ton in place of 2a . per ton as mentioned in the aforesaid patta . If the defendant No . 3 does not execute the parts on the aforesaid modified terms in favour 'of the plaintiffs within the time aforesaid and both the defendants 1 and 2 also do not execute a kabuliyat on the aforesaid modified terms , then this very rafanama shall be treated as the parts and kabuliyat , and the plaintiffs in accordance with the terms of the rafanama shall pay to defendant No . 3 , Rs . 6,000 only as minimum royalty and commission at the rate of la . per ton with respect to 5,800 bighas and shall continue to realise commission at the rate of 2a . 6p . per ton from defendants 1 and 2 who shall remain bound to pay the same. '' 837 The answer to the question whether this compromise decree requires registration depends on the legal effect of the changes in the status quo ante of the parties brought about by the document . A careful analysis reveals the following alterations : ( 1 ) In the lease to the Singhs , the rate of royalty or commission was reduced from 2a . per ton of coal raised to la . per ton and the minimum royalty was reduced from Rs . 8,000 to Rs . 6,000 while the area of coal land in their khas possession was reduced by 500 bighas . ( 2 ) In the lease to the Deoshis the rate of royalty or commission was enhanced from 2a . per ton to 2a . per ton and tiffs was made payable to the Singhs . The Singhs and the Deoshis were brought into a new legal relationship , the former accepting the latter as tenants holding the disputed 500 bighas under them in consideration of the latter agreeing to pay the enhanced royalty to the former . ( 4 ) The whole arrangement was made conditional on the Singhs paying Rs . 8,000 to Kumar within 2 months from the date of the compromise , it being expressly provided that the Singhs were not to be entitled to execute the decree or to take possession of the disputed area of 503 bighas which evidently had not till then passed into their possession . Now , sub section ( 1 ) of section 17 of the , enumerates five categories of documents of which regis tration is made compulsory which include '' ( d ) leases of immoveable property from year to year , or for any term exceeding one year , or reserving a yearly rent ; '' . Sub sec tion ( 2 ) however provided that `` nothing in clauses ( b ) and ( c ) of sub section ( 1 ) applies to . ( vi ) any decree or order of court. '' It may be mentioned in passing that this clause was amended with affect from the 1st April , 1930 , by the , so as to exclude from the scope of the exception compromise decrees comprising immovable property other than that which is the subject matter of the suit . But 838 the amendment can not affect the document here in question which came into existence in 1923 . Before the amendment , the clause was held to cover even compromise decrees comprising immovable property which was not the subject matter of the suit : [ Vide Hemanta Kumari Debi vs Midnapur Zamindari Co. ( ' ) ] . That decision applies to the present case and obviates the objection that because the compromise in question covered also the remaining 5,300 bighas which were not the subject matter of the title suit of 1921 , it was outside the scope of the exception in sub section ( 2 ) , clause ( vi ) . The only question , therefore , is whether the compromise decree is a `` lease '' [ which expression includes `` an agreement to lease '' by the definition in section 2 ( 7 ) ] within the meaning of el . ( d ) of sub section ( 1 ) . It is obvious that if the compromise decree fails within clause ( d ) of sub section ( 1 ) it would not be protected under clause ( vi ) of sub section ( 2 ) which excepts only documents falling under the categories ( b ) and ( c ) of sub section ( 1 ) . The High Court was of opinion that , on a proper construction of the terms of the compromise , it did not fall under clause ( d ) . Mano har Lall J. , who delivered the leading judgment , observed : `` It was a tripartite agreement embodied in the decree of the court and was , therefore , exempt from registration . It will be oh.served also that so far as the defendants were con cerned , their possession of the 500 bighas was not inter fered with and they still remained in possession as the lessees , but instead of paying the royalty to the plaintiffs it was agreed between