the District Superintendent of Police and the endorsement of the District Magistrate referred to in the sanction , and to call any necessary oral evidence to supplement the documents and show what were the facts which the sanction was given. '' It is in this connection that their Lordships em phasise that the sanction to prosecute is an important step constituting a condition precedent , and observe : `` Looked at as a matter of substance it is plain that the Government can not adequately discharge the obligation of deciding whether to give or withhold a sanction without a knowledge of the facts of the case . Nor , in their Lordships ' view , is a sanction given without reference to the facts constituting the offence a compliance with the actual terms of clause 23. '' This , however , is no authority for the position that a sanction stands the same footing as a direction . It is true that the facts should be known to the sanctioning authority ; but it is not at all necessary that the authority should embark also an investigation of the facts , deep or perfunctory , before according the sanction . The decision lends no support to the view that wherever there is a sanction , the sanctioning authority is disabled under section 556 of the Code from trying the case initiated as a result of the sanction . the other hand , there is plenty of support for the opposite ) view . In the very early case of The Government of Bengal vs HeeraLall Dass and Others ( 1 ) , at a time when there ( 1 ) ( 1872 ) 17 Weekly Reporter , Criminal Rulings , 39 . 133 was no such statutory provision as section 556 of the Code but , only the general rule of law that a man could not be judge in a case in which he had an interest , the facts were that a Sub Registrar , who was also an Assistant Magistrate , having come to know in his official capacity as a registering officer that an offence under the Registration Act had been committed , sanctioned a prosecution , and subsequently tried the case himself . A Full Bench consisting of Sir Richard Couch C. ' J. and five other learned Judges came to the conclusion , after an examination of some of the English cases , that the trial was not vitiated . The learned Chief Justice said : `` In this case , I think , the Sub Registrar has not such an interest in the matter as disqualifies him from trying the case ; and I may observe with reference to some of the arguments that have been used as to the Sub Registrar having made up his mind , and that the accused would have no chance of a fair trial , that the sanction of the superior officer , the Registrar , is required before the prosecution can be instituted , and certainly I do not consider that the prosecution will not be instituted unless the Sub Registrar has made up his mind as to the guilt of the party . It is his duty , when he comes to know that an offence has been committed , to cause a prosecution to be instituted , by which I understand that there is prima facie evidence of an offence having been committed , that there is that which renders it proper that there should be ail enquiry , and the Registrar accordingly gives his sanction to it ; and certainly , I can not suppose that , because an officer in his position sanctions the institution of a prosecution , his mind is made up as to the guilt of the party and . that he is not willing to consider the evidence which may be produced before him when he comes to try the case . In this case , there appears to 'be no such interest as would prevent the case from going '' before the Magistrate as the trying authority . 134 In Queen Empress vs Chenchi Reddi ( 1 ) it was pointed out that when there was only an authorisation and not a direction , there was no supervening disability ; and the case of Girish Chunder Ghose vs The QueenEmpress ( 2 ) was distinguished , the ground that there the Magistrate had taken a very active part in connection with the case as an executive officer . The Bombay High Court went even a step further in the case reported in Emperor vs Bavji ( 3 ) , where the Magistrate who tried the case had earlier held a departmental enquiry and forwarded the papers to the Collector with his opinion that there was sufficient evidence to justify a criminal prosecution . As he did no more than express an opinion that there was evidence , which he , had neither taken nor sifted , which made a criminal prosecution desirable , it was held that the Magistrate was not disqualified from holding the trial , though , no doubt it would have been more expedient had the Collector sent the case for disposal to another of his subordinates . As stated already , the question whether the bar under section 556 comes into play depends upon the facts and circumstances of each particular case , the dividing line being a thin one somewhat but still sufficiently definite and tangible , namely , the removal of a legal impediment by the grant 'of sanction and the initiation of criminal proceedings as the result of a direction . In the present case before us , we have nothing more than a sanction , and consequently we are unable to hold that the trial has become vitiated by reason of the provisions of section 556 , Criminal Procedure Code . The other point taken behalf of the appellant