is a more substantial one . The security bond was taken from him not by the court but by the Procurement Inspector . It is true that it contained the undertaking that , the seized paddy would be produced before the court , but still it was a promise made to the particular official and not to the court . The High ( 1 ) Mad . 238 . ( 3 ) ( 19O3 ) ( 2 ) Cal . 857 . 135 Court was in error in thinking that section 514 , Criminal Procedure Code , applied . Action could be taken only when the bond is taken by the court under the provisions of the Code such as section 91 for appearance , the several security sections or those relating to bail . Clause ( 1 ) of section 514 runs : `` Whenever it is proved to the satisfaction of the , Court by which a bond under this Code has been taken , or of the Court of a Presidency Magistrate or Magistrate of the first class , or when the bond is for appearance before a Court , to the satisfaction of such Court , that such bond has been forfeited , the Court shall record the grounds of such proof , and may call upon any person bound by such bond to pay the penalty thereof , or to show cause why it should not be paid. '' The language is perfectly clear ; the power to forfeit and the imposition of the penalty provided for in the later parts of the section arise only if the preliminary conditions are satisfied . There was no argument addressed to us that the High Court in suggesting that action should be taken under section 514 for forfeiture of the bond acted in the exercise of its inherent powers under section 561 A . It did not purport to exercise any such power ; and , moreover , there will then arise the question whether when the Code contains an express provision a particular subject , there could be any resort to inherent jurisdiction , under a general provision . We have got an additional circumstance in the appellant 's favour in this case that the seized paddy was taken away by a member of the Legislative Assembly for giving relief to those affected by the earthquake , and if that is true , as it seems to be from the letter written by the ' M.L.A . to the Additional District Magistrate the 1st November , 1950 , it appears to us harsh , if not unjust , to ask him to produce the same paddy or a similar quantity of paddy . The order of the High Court sending back the case to the 136 Magistrate for taking action according to law under section 514 will , therefore , stand set aside . We generally do not interfere in the matter of sentence , but in this case we find that the Magistrate has held that the appellant 's plea that he was ignorant of the provisions of the Assam Food Grains Control Order , 1947 , was a genuine one . Having regard to this circumstance and the fact that from a fine of Rs . 50 to 6 months ' rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs . 1,000 is a big jump , we think it is appropriate that the sentence of imprisonment imposed by the High Court should be set aside and we order accordingly . The fine of Rs . 1,000 will stand . Sentence reduced .