which different views are possible and have been taken . Section 556 itself indicates the difficulty . The Explanation to the section runs in these terms : `` A Judge or Magistrate shall not be deemed a party , or personally interested , within the , meaning of this section , to or in any case by reason only that be is a Municipal Commissioner or otherwise concerned therein in a public capacity , or by reason only that he has viewed the place in which an offence , is alleged to have been committed , or any other place .in which any other transaction material to the case 'is alleged to have occurred , and made an inquiry III connection with the case. '' 130 This shows that to be connected with a case in a public capacity is not by itself enough to render the person incompetent to try it . Even if he had made an enquiry in connection with this case , it would not matter . But look at the illustration : `` A , as collector , upon consideration of information furnished to him , directs the prosecution of B for a breach of the excise laws . A is disqualified from trying this case as a Magistrate. '' It is evident from the words of the illustration that if a prosecution is directed by a person in one capacity , he shall not try the case acting in another capacity as a Magistrate . The explanation and illustration lend some support to the view that there is a distinction between a passive interest and an active interest , and that it is only in the latter case that the disqualification arises or intervenes . Under sub section ( 3 ) ( a ) of section 2 of the Assam Food Grains Control Order `` Director '' means `` the Director of Supply , Assam , and includes , for the purpose of any specific . provision of this Order , any other officer duly authorised in that behalf by him or by the Provincial Government by notification in the Official Gazette. '' Section 38 provides : No prosecution in respect of an alleged contravention of any provision of this Order shall be instituted without the sanction of the Director. '' A little confusion is likely to arise from the employment of the word `` Director '' in the Control Order and the word `` directs '' in the illustration to section 556 of the Code ' . It has to be borne in mind that a sanction by the Director within the meaning of the Code does not necessarily mean `` a direction given by him that the accused should be prosecuted. '' In both cases of sanction and direction , an application of the mind is necessary , but there is this essential difference that in the one case there is a legal impediment to the prosecution if there be no sanction , and in the other case , there is a positive order that 131 the prosecution should be launched . For a sanction , all that is necessary for one to be satisfied about is the existence of a prima facie case . In the case of a , direction , a further element that the accused deserves to be prosecuted is involved . The question whether a Magistrate is personally interested or not has essentially to be decided the facts in each case . Pecuniary interest , however small , will be a disqualification but as regards other kinds of interest , there is no measure or standard except that it should be a substantial one , giving rise to a real bias , or a reasonable apprehension the part of the accused of such bias . , The maxim `` Nemo debet esse judex in propria sua causa '' applies only when the interest attributed is such as to render the case his own cause . The fulfllment of a technical requirement imposed by a statute may not , in many cases , amount to a mental satisfaction of the truth of the facts placed before the officer . Whether sanction should be granted or not may conceivably depend upon consideration extraneous to the merits of the case . But where a prosecution is directed , it means that the authority who gives the direction is satisfied in his own mind that the case must be initiated . Sanction is in the nature of a permission while a direction is in the nature of a command . Let us now examine some of the decisions the subject . For the appellant , strong reliance was placed the judgment of the Privy Council in Gokulchand Dwarkadas vs King ( 1 ) , and it was argued the basis of some of the observations of the Judicial Committee that a sanction was an important and substantial matter and not a mere formality . The facts in that case were that while there was a sanction of the Government for a prosecution under the Cotton Cloth and Yarn Control , Order , there was nothing in the sanction itself , or in the shape of extraneous evidence , to show that the sanction was accorded after the relevant facts were placed before the sanctioning authority . To quote their Lordships ' own words ; ( 1 ) ( 1948 ) 52 C.W.N.325 . 132 `` There is no evidence to show that the report of the Sub Inspector to the District Superintendent of Police , which was not put in evidence , was forwarded to the District Magistrate , nor is there any evidence is to the contents of the endorsement of the District Magistrate , referred to in the sanction , which endorsement also was not put in evidence . The prosecution was in a position either to produce or to account for the absence of the 'report made to