iminal Appeal No . 40 of 1951 , 127 Appeal from the Judgment and Order dated the 1st June , 1951 , of the High Court of Judicature in Assam ( Thadani C.J . and Ram Labhaya J. , ) in Criminal Reference No . I of 1951 , arising out of Judgment and Order dated the 15th November , 1950 , of the Court of the Additional District Magistrate , Lakhimpur , in Case No . 1126C of 1950 . Jindra Lal for the appellant . Nuruddin Ahmed for the respondent . October 23 . The Judgment of the Court was delivered by CHANDRASEKHARA AIYAR J. Rameshwar Bhartia , the appellant , is a shopkeeper in Assam . He was prosecuted for storing paddy without a licence in excess of the quantity permitted by the Assam Food Grains Control Order , 1947 . He admitted storage and possession of 550 maunds of paddy , but pleaded that he did not know that any licence was necessary . The 'Additional District Magistrate recorded a plea of guilty , but imposed him a fine of Rs . 50 only , as he considered his ignorance of the provisions of the Food Grains Control Order to be genuine . The stock of paddy was left in the possession of the appellant by the Procurement Inspector under a Jimmanama or security bond executed in his favour . He was subsequently unable to produce it before the court , as the whole of it was taken away by a Congress M.L.A . for affording relief to those who suffered in the earthquake , and so , the appellant was ordered to procure a similar quantity of paddy after taking an appropriate licence , and to make over the same to the procurement department payment of the price . The District Magistrate , being moved to do so by the procurement department , referred the case to the High Court under section 438 , Criminal Procedure Code , for enhancement of the sentence , as in his opinion the sentence was unduly lenient and the Jimmanama , which was admittedly broken , should have been forfeited . 128 The reference was accepted by the High Court , and the sent ence was enhanced to rigorous ' imprisonment for six months and a fine of Rs . 1,000 . As regards the Jimmanama , the case was sent back to the trial court for taking action according to law under section 514 , Criminal Procedure Code , for its forfeiture . The appellant applied to the High . Court for a certificate under article 134 ( 1 ) ( c ) of the Constitution that the case was a fit one for appeal to this Court . This application was granted . Out of the three points urged for the appellant , two were rejected , but the third one was accepted as a good ground , namely , that there was a contravention of the provisions of section 556 , Criminal Procedure Code and that consequently the , trial before the Additional District Magistrate was void . One of the contentions urged before us was that Shri C.K . Bhuyan was not a `` Director '' at all and therefore there was no valid sanction under section 38 of the Order . A notifications dated 16th May ) 1950 , and published in the Assam Gazette of the 24th May , 1950 , was produced before us to show that Sri C.K . Bhuyan was an Additional Deputy Commissioner and it was conceded by the appellant 's counsel before the High Court that if he was a Deputy Commissioner , he would be a Director under the Order , as all Deputy Commissioners in Assam were notified as Directors for the purposes of the Order . Mr. Jindra Lal sought to draw a distinction between a Deputy Commissioner and an Additional Deputy Commissioner in this respect , but there is no warrant for the same , , apart from the circumstance that it is a question of fact which has to be investigated afresh , and which we can not allow to be raised now for the first time . The primary question to consider in this appeal is whether there has been any infringement of Section 556 , Criminal Procedure Code , and a consequent want of jurisdiction in the court which tried the offence . The facts relevant to this question lie 129 within a narrow compass . The Procurement Inspector sent a report , Ist July,1950 about the nature of the offence ; he wrote out a short note the , subject , and requested that the accused might be prosecuted and the Assistant Director of Procurement , Dibru garh , might be authorised to dispose of the paddy immediately to avoid loss due to deterioration , Sri 0 . K. Bhuyan , who was the then District Magistrate Lakhimpur , made the following order : `` Prosecution sanctioned under section 7 ( 1 ) of , the Essential Supplies ( Temporary Powers ) Act , 1946 , for violation of sections 3 and 7 of the Assam Food Grains Oontrol Order , 1947. '' The case happened to be tried by the same gentleman in his capacity as Addtional District Magistrate , and the accused was convicted as aforesaid . The argument for the appellant was that having sanctioned the prosecution , Sri C.K . Bhuyan became `` personally interested '' in the case within the meaning of section 556 , and was therefore incompetent to try the same . It was contended that the trial was not only irregular but illegal . There is no question that `` personal interest '' within the meaning of the section is not limited to private interest , and that it may well include official interest also . But what is the extent of the interest which will attract the disability is a subject