motor vehicle service for the transit and conveyance of all postal articles for the period specified in the contract , and the Governor General had accepted the offer . As a consideration for the same the Government had agreed to pay to the contractor Rs . 200 per month during the subsistence of the agreement `` as his remuneration for the service to be rendered by him '' . It appears that on this contract two questions were raised before this Court . First it was urged that it could not be said that the Central Government had undertaken any service within the meaning of section 7 ( d ) of the Act when it made arrangements for the carriage of mailbags and postal articles through the contractor . This contention was rejected on the ground that though the Government was not bound in the discharge of its duties as a sovereign State to make provision for postal mail service , it had in fact undertaken to do so under the Indian Post Offices Act for the convenience of the public . `` It can not be gainsaid '' , observed Sinha , J. , as he then was , `` that the postal department is rendering a very useful service , and that the appellant has by his contract with the Government undertaken to render that kind of service on a specified route '' ; and he added , `` the present case is a straightforward illustration of the kind of contract contemplated under section 7 ( d ) of the Act '' . This straightforward illustration , in our opinion , clearly brings out the class and type of contracts which fall within section 7 ( d ) of the Act . Government must undertake to render a specified service or specified services and the contract must be for the rendering of the said service or services . That was precisely what the contract in the case of N. Satyanathan ( 1 ) purported to do . It is difficult to see how this case can be said to support the conclusion of the High Court that the contract for stocking and storing of goods is a contract for rendering the service of supplying and selling the same to the residents of the place . In this connection Mr. Jha , for the respondents , has drawn our attention to a decision of the Madras High ( 1 ) ; 479 Court in V. V. Ramaswamy vs Election Tribunal , Tirunelveli ( 1 ) . In that case the Court was concerned with four contracts by which the contracting party agreed `` to hold the reserve grain stock belonging to the Government of Madras , safely store it , and dispose of it according to the directions of the Government '' . In other words , it was a contract not only for the stocking and storing of foodgrains but also of disposing of it , and that naturally meant that the contract was for service which the State Government had undertaken to perform . This decision can not assist the respondents in the present appeal . In the result we hold that the High Court was not justified in reversing the finding of the Tribunal that the contract in question did not attract the provisions of section 7 ( d ) of the Act . The appeal must , therefore , be allowed and the order passed by the High Court set aside . We can not finally dispose of the matter , because one question still remains to be considered , and that is whether the conclusion that the appellant 's nomination paper had been improperly rejected would lead to the decision that the election of not only respondent 1 but also respondent 2 should be declared to be void . The Election Tribunal has declared the whole election to be void , and in their respective appeals filed before the High Court both the respondents have challenged the correctness of that finding . The High Court , however , thought that since in its opinion the nomination paper of the appellant had been properly rejected it was unnecessary to deal with the other point . The point will now have to be considered by the High Court . We would , therefore , set aside the order passed by the High Court and remand the pro ceedings to it in order that it may deal with the other question and dispose of the appeals expeditiously in accordance with law . In the circumstances of this case we direct that the parties should bear their own costs in this Court . Costs in the High Court will be costs in the appeal before it . Appeal allowed .