question would obviously attract the provisions of section 7 ( d ) . Mr. Varma , however , contends that the service undertaken by the State Government is the sale of foodgrains under its Grain Supply Scheme ; and he argues that unless the contract shows that it was for sale of the said goods it can not attract the provisions of section 7 ( d ) . Unfortunately the scheme adopted by the State Government for the supply of grain has not been produced before the Election Tribunal , and so the precise nature and extent of the services undertaken by the State Government fall to be determined solely by reference to the contract in question . It is true that the contract relates to the stocking and storing of foodgrains which the State Government wanted to sell to the residents of Bihar ; but can it be said 476 that stocking and storing of foodgrains was such an integral or essential part of the selling of goods that a contract for stocking and storing foodgrains should necessarily be regarded as a contract for their sale ? In our opinion , it is difficult to accept the argument that stocking and storing of foodgrains is shown to be such an essential and integral part of the supply scheme adopted by the State Government . Theoretically speaking stocking and storing foodgrains can not be said to be essential for the purpose of carrying out the scheme of sale of foodgrains , because it would conceivably be possible for the State Government to adopt a scheme whereby goods may be supplied without the State Government having to store them ; and so the work of stocking and storing of foodgrains may in some cases be conceivably incidental to the scheme and not its essential part . It is significant that sale of goods under the contract was never to take place at the godown of the firm . It had always to take place at other selling , centers or shops ; and thus , between the stocking and storing of goods and their sale there is an element of time lag . The only obligation that was imposed on the firm by this contract was to be a custodian or bailee of the goods , keep them in good order and deliver them after weighment as directed by the first party . It can not be denied that the remuneration for the bailee has been fixed at the rate , of Re . 1 per cent on the value of the stocks moved or taken over from his custody ; but that only shows the mode or method adopted by the con tract for determining the remuneration including rent of the godowns ; it can not possibly show the relationship of the contract with the sale of goods even indirectly . Can it be said that the contract entered into by the State Government for purchasing foodgrains from agriculturists who grow them or for transporting them after purchase to the godowns are contracts for the sale or supply of goods ? Purchase of goods and their transport are no doubt preparatory to the carrying out of the scheme of selling them or supplying them , and yet it would be difficult to hold that contracts entered into by the State Government with the agriculturists or the transport agency is a contract for the 477 sale of goods . We have carefully considered the material terms of this contract , and on the record as it stands we are unable to accept the conclusion of the High Court that a contract of bailment which imposed on the bailee the obligation to stock and store the foodgrains in his godown can be said to be a contract for the purpose of the service of sale of grain which the State Government had undertaken within the meaning of section 7 ( d ) . It appears that before the High Court it was not disputed by the appellant that the service whose performance had been undertaken by the State Government consisted in the supply of grain to the people of the State of Bihar ; and the High Court thought that from this concession it inevitably followed that the firm had a share and was interested in the contract for the performance of the service undertaken by the Government of Bihar . It seems to us that the concession made by the appellant does not inevitably or necessarily lead to the inference drawn by the High Court . If the service undertaken by the State Government is one of supplying grain how does it necessarily follow that a contract by which the bailee undertook to store the grain was a contract for the supply of grain ? It may sound technical , but in dealing with a statutory provision which imposes a disqualification on a citizen it would be unreasonable to take merely a broad and general view and ignore the essential points of distinction on the ground that they are technical . The narrow question is : if the State Government undertook the work of supplying the grain , is the contract one for the supply of grain ? ; in our opinion , the answer to this question must be in the negative ; that is why we think the High Court did not correctly appreciate the effect of the contract when it held that the said contract brought the appellant 's case within the mischief of section 7 ( d ) . In coming to its conclusion the High Court thought that its view was supported by a decision of this Court in N. Satyanathan vs K. Subramanyan ( 1 ) . In that case the appellant who was a contractor had entered into an agreement with the Central Government ( 1 ) ; 478 whereby he had offered to contract with the Governor General for the provision of a