The decision of this question naturally depends primarily on the construction and effect of the contract in question . Section 7 of the Act provides for disqualification for membership of Parliament or of State Legislatures . Section 7 ( d ) , as it stood at the material time and with which we are concerned in the present appeal provides , , inter alia , that a person shall be disqualified for being chosen as , and for being , a member of the Legislative Assembly of a State , if whether by himself or by any person or body of persons in trust for him or for his benefit or on his account , he has any share or interest in a contract for the supply of goods to , or for the execution of any works or the performance of any services undertaken by , the appropriate Government . On the concurrent findings recorded by the High Court and the Tribunal it can not now be disputed that the appellant has interest in the contract in question ; so that the first part of section 7 ( d ) is satisfied . The High Court has found that the contract attracts the last part of section 7 ( d ) inasmuch as according to the High Court the Government of Bihar had undertaken to discharge the service of supplying grain to the residents of Bihar and the firm of the appellant 's family had entered into a contract for the performance of the said services . The last part of section 7 ( d ) postulates that the appropriate Government has undertaken to perform certain specific services , and it is for the performance of such services that the contract had been entered into by a citi zen . In other words , if a citizen has entered into a contract with the appropriate Government for the 60 474 performance of the services undertaken by the said Government he attracts the application of section 7 ( d ) . This provision inevitably raises two questions : what are the services undertaken by the appropriate Government ? Has the contract been entered into for the performance of the said services ? At this stage it is necessary to consider the material terms of the contract . This contract was made on February 8 , 1956 , between the Governor of Bihar who is described as the first party and the firm which is described as the second party . The preamble to the contract shows that the first party had to stock and store foodgrains in Darbhanga District for sale in pursuance of the Grain Supply Scheme of the Government for which a proper custodian and bailee for reward was necessary . It also recites that the second party had applied to become such custodian and bailee of such stock of foodgrains as the first party shall deliver to the second party in one lump or from time to time on terms and in the manner expressly specified under the contract , or as may be necessarily implied . Clause 1 of the contract provides that the second party shall , at the direction of the first party , take over foodgrains from the railway wagons or from any place as directed by the first party ; thereafter the second party had to cause the grains to be stored in his godown at Dalsinghsarai and had to redeliver the same to the first party after weighing either at the second party 's godown approved by the first party or at any other place as directed by the first party . The movement of the grain had to be done by the second party himself or by a transport contractor appointed by the first party . Clause 2 imposed on the second party the liability to maintain a register and keep accounts as prescribed thereunder . Under cl . 3 the second party undertook to keep such stocks and establishments as may be necessary at his own expense . Clause 4 imposed upon the second party the obligation to protect the stock of foodgrains or to make good the losses except as thereinafter provided : Clauses 5 to 8 are not material for our purpose . Clause 9 provides that the second party shall deposit the sum of 475 Rs . 5,000 in a Savings Bank account which has been pledged to the District Magistrate , Darbhanga , and comply with the other conditions specified in the clause . Clause 10 deals with the remuneration of the second party . It provides that the first party shall be liable to pay to the second party remuneration for the undertaking in this agreement at the rate of Re . 1 per ( cent on the value of the stocks moved or taken over from his custody under the orders or directions of the first party or his agent calculated at the rate fixed by the Government from time to time for wholesale sales of grain . The clause adds that no remuneration shall be payable to the second party if the first party takes over the whole of the balance stock lying with the second party for reasons of the termination of the agreement . The rest of the clauses need not be recited . It would thus be seen that the agreement in terms is one of bailment . The State Government wanted to entrust the work of stocking and storing foodgrains to a custodian or bailee . In that behalf the appellant 's firm made an application and ultimately was appointed a bailee . There is no doubt that by this contract the firm has undertaken to do the work of stocking and storing foodgrains belonging to the State Government ; and if it can be reasonably held that the service undertaken by the State Government in the present case was that of stocking the foodgrains the contract in