Appeal No . 388 of 1960 . Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated February 3 , 1959 , of the Patna High Court in Election Appeal No . 10 of 1958. section P. Varma , for the appellant . L. K. Jha and D. Govardhan , for respondent No . 1 . L. K. Jha and K. K. Sinha , for respondent No . 2 . 1960 . November 17 . The Judgment of the Court was delivered by 471 GAJENDRAGADKAR , J . Is the appellant Ram Padarath Mahto disqualified for membership of the Bihar Legislature under section 7 ( d ) of the Representation of the People Act , 1951 ( hereafter called the Act ) ? That is the short question which arises for our decision in the present appeal by special leave . The appellant was one of the candidates for the Dalsinghsarai Constituency in the District of Darbhanga in Bihar for the State Legislature . The said Constituency is a Double Member Constituency ; it was required to elect two members , one for the general and the other for the reserved seat for scheduled castes in the Bihar Legislative Assembly . It appears that the said Constituency called upon voters to elect members on January 19 , 1957 . January 29 , 1957 was fixed as the last date for the filing of the nomination papers . The appellant filed his nomination paper on January 28 , 1957 , and on the next day seven other members filed their nomination papers . On February 1 , 1957 , the nomination paper filed by the appellant was rejected by the returning officer on two grounds ; he held that the appellant being an Inspector of Co operative Societies was a Government servant at the material time and so was disqualified from standing for election . He also found that the appellant was a member of a joint and undivided Hindu family which carried on the business of Government as stockiest of grain under a contract between the Government of Bihar and a firm of the joint family known as Nebi Mahton Bishundayal Mahto . Thereafter the election was duly held , and Mr. Mishri Singh and Mr. Baleshwar Ram , respondents 1 and 2 were declared duly elected to the general and reserved seat respectively . The validity of this election was challenged by the appellant by his Election Petition No . 428 of 1957 . To this petition he impleaded the two candidates declared to have been duly elected and five others who had contested in the election . Before the Election Tribunal the appellant urged that he was not in the employ of the Government of Bihar at the material time . He pointed out that he had resigned his job on January 13 , 472 1957 , and his resignation had been accepted on January 25 , 1957 , relieving him from his post as from the later date . He also contended that there was a partition in his family and that he had no share or interest in the contract in question . Alternatively it was argued that even if the appellant had an interest in the said contract it did not fall within the mischief of section 7 ( d ) of the Act . These pleas were traversed by respondents 1 and 2 who contested the appellant 's election petition . The Election Tribunal found that the petitioner was not a Government servant on the day he filed his nomination paper , and so according to it the returning officer was wrong in rejecting his nomination paper on the ground that he was a Government servant at the material time . The Election Tribunal rejected the appellant 's case that there was a partition in the family , and held that at the relevant time the appellant continued to be a member of the joint Hindu family which had entered into the contract in question with the Government of Bihar . However , in its opinion , having regard to the nature of the said contract it was not possible to hold that the appellant was disqualified under section 7 ( d ) , and so it came to the conclusion that the returning officer was in error in rejecting the appellant 's nomination paper on this ground as well . In the result the Tribunal allowed the election petition , declared that the nomination paper had been improperly rejected , and that the election of the two contesting respondents was void . Against this decision the two contesting respondents filed two appeals in the High Court at Patna ( Election Appeals Nos . 9 and 10 of 1958 ) . The High Court has confirmed the finding of the Tribunal that the appellant was not a Government servant at the material time . It has also agreed with the conclusion of the Tribunal that at the relevant time the appellant was a member of the undivided Hindu family . On the construction of the contract , however , it differed from the view adopted by the Tribunal , and it has held that as a result of the said contract the appellant was disqualified under section 7 ( d ) of the Act . This finding 473 inevitably led to the conclusion that the appellant 's nomination paper had been properly rejected . On that view the High Court did not think it necessary to consider whether the Tribunal was right in declaring void the election of not only respondent 1 but of respondent 2 as well . It is against this decision of the High Court that the appellant has come to this Court by special leave ; and the only question which is raised on his behalf is that the High Court was in error in coming to the conclusion that he was disqualified under section 7 ( d ) .