however , not material now . Section 5 provides that all inam villages or inam lands are and shall be liable to the payment of land revenue in accordance with the provisions of the Code or the 947 rules made thereunder and the provisions of the Code and the rules relating to unalienated lands shall apply to such lands . It further provides that an inamdar in respect of the inam land in his actual possession or in possession of a person holding from him other than an inferior holder ( subject to an exception which we shall mention just now ) would be primarily liable to the State Government for the payment of land revenue due in respect of such land held by him and shall be entitled to all the rights and shall be liable to all obligations in respect of such land as an occupant under the Code or the rules made thereunder or any other law for the time being in force . Thus by section 5 the holder of a personal inam became for all practical purposes an occupant under the Code liable to pay full land revenue and the advantage that he had under Acts II and VII of 1863 of paying only a part of the land revenue and retaining the rest for himself was taken away . The exception which we have refer . red to above was where the inferior holder holding inam land paid an amount equal to the annual assess ment to the holder of the personal inam , such inferior holder would be liable to the State Government and would become an occupant of the land under the Code . Section 7 then vests certain lands like public roads , paths and lanes , the bridges , ditches , dikes and fences , the bed of the sea and harbours , creeks below high water mark and of rivers , streams , nallas , lakes , wells and tanks , and all canals , water courses , all standing and flowing water , all unbuilt village sites , all waste lands and all uncultivated lands ( excluding lands used for building or other non agricultural purposes ) in the State Government and extinguishes the rights of inamdar in them . Section 8 deals with right to trees and section 9 with right to mines and mineral products . Section 10 provides for compensation for extinguishment of rights under section 7 while section 11 gives a right of appeal from the order of the Collector under section 10 . Sections 12 to 16 deal with procedural matters and section 17 provides for payment of compensation for extinction or modification of an inamdar 's right which may not be covered by section 10 . Sub section ( 5 ) 948 of section 17 however says that `` nothing in this section shall entitle any person to compensation on the ground that any inam village or inam land which was wholly or partially exempt from the payment of land revenue has been under the provisions of this Act made subject to the payment of full assessment in accordance with the provisions of the Code `` . Section 17 A provides for the issue of bonds while section 18 provides for the application of the Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands ; Act , 1948 , to any inam village or . inam land or the mutual rights and obligations of an inamdar and his tenants . Section 19 provides for making of rules and section 20 deals with repeals and amendments . It will be seen from this analysis of the Act that the main provisions are sections 4 , 5 and 7 . So far as section 7 is concerned , there is provision for compensation with respect to lands vested in the State by virtue of that section . But no compensation is provided for the rights extinguished by as . 4 and 5 . As we have seen already the main right of an inamdar was to hold his lands on payment of land revenue which was less than the full assessment and it is this right which has been abolished by sections 4 and 5 and the inamdar will now have to pay the full assessment . No compensation has been provided for the loss which the inamdar suffers by having to pay the full assessment . This brings us to the first contention . On behalf of the appellants it is urged that what sections 4 and 5 extinguish is the right of the inamdar to appropriate to himself the difference between the full assessment and the quit rent , and this is not an estate within the meaning of Art , 3 1 A of the Constitution . The relevant provisions in article 31 A for present purposes aref these : `` 31 A ( 1 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in article 13 , no law providing for ( a ) the acquisition by the State of any estate or of any rights therein or the extinguishment or modification of any such rights , or ( b ) . . . . ( c ) . . . . 949 ( d ) . . . . ( e ) . . . . shall be deemed to be void on the ground that it is in consistent with or takes away or abridges any of the rights conferred by article 14 , art 19 or article 31 ; Provided . . . ( 2 ) In this article ( a ) the expression ' estate ' shall , in relation to any local area , have the same meaning as that expression or its local equivalent has in the existing law relating to land tenures in force in that area , and shall also include any jagir , inam or muafi or other similar grant and in the States of Madras and Kerala any janmam