right ; ( b ) the expression 'rights ' in relation to an estate shall include any rights vesting in a proprietor , sub proprietor , under proprietor , tenure holder , raiyat , under raiyat or other intermediary and any rights or privileges in respect of land revenue `` . It will be , clear from the definition of the word estate `` in article 31 A ( 2 ) ( a ) that it specifically includes an `` inam `` within it . As such it would be in our opinion idle to contend that inams are not estates within the meaning of the expression `` estate `` for the purpose of article 31 A . The Act specifically deals with inams and would thus be obviously protected under article 31 A from any attack under article 14 , article 19 or article 31 . It is , however , urged that the right of the inamdar to appropriate to himself that part of full assessment which was left over after he had paid the quit rent to the Government is not a right in an estate . This contention also has no force . Inams being estates , the right of the inamdar to retain part of the full assessment over and above the quit rent payable to the Government arises because he holds the inam estate . The right therefore can be nothing more than a right in an estate . Besides the definition of the expression `` rights `` in article 31 A ( 2 ) ( b ) makes the position clear beyond all doubt , for it provides that the rights in relation to an estate would include any rights or privileges in respect of land revenue 121 950 Even if it were possible to say that the right of the inamdar to appropriate to himself the difference between the full assessment and the quit rent was not a right in an estate as such , it would become a right in an estate by virtue of this inclusive definition for the inamdar 's right could only be a right or privilege in respect of land revenue . Besides , it is clear that the right in question falls under section 3 ( 5 ) of the Code and as such also it is an estate under Art.31 A . The contention of the appellants therefore that inams dealt with by the Act are not covered by the expression `` estate `` in article 31 A fails . Their further contention that their right to retain the difference between full assessment and quit rent is not a right in an estate also fails . The Act therefore when it extinguishes or modifies the rights of inamdars in the inam estates is clearly protected by article 31 A . The next contention is that the Act does not provide for compensation and is therefore ultra vires in view of article 31 . We find , however , that the Act has provided for compensation under section 10 so far as that part of inam lands which are vested in the State by section 7 are concerned . Further section 17 provides for compensation in a possible case where anything has been left out by section 7 and the inamdar is entitled to compensation for it . It is true that by sub section ( 5 ) of section 17 no compensation is to be paid for the loss to the inamdar of what he used to get because of the difference between the quit rent and the full assessment . It is how ever clear that article 31 A saves the Act from any attack under article 31 which is the only Article providing for compensation . In this view of the matter the constitutionality of the Act can not be assailed on the ground that it provides no compensation for extinction of certain rights . There is no force in these appeals and they are hereby dismissed with costs . One set only of hearing costs . Appeals dismissed .