Appeals Nos . 155 to 160 of 1956 . Appeals from the judgments and orders of the Bombay High Court dated July 6 , 1954 , in Special Civil Applications Nos . 393 , 395 , 409 and 632 of 1954 ; July 19 , 1954 , in Special Civil Application No . 1205 of 1954 ; and July 30 , 1954 , in Special Civil Application No . 1309 of 1954 . Purshottam Trikamdas , V. M. Limaye , E. Udayaratnam and section section Shukla , for the appellants . H. N. Sanyal , Additional Solicitor General of India , N. P. Nathwani , K. L. Hathi and R. H. Dhebar , for the respondents . 1960 . October 3 . The Judgment of the Court was delivered by WANCHOO J . These six appeals on a certificate granted by the Bombay High Court raise a common question as to the constitutionality of the Bombay Personal Inams Abolition Act , No . XLII of 1953 , ( hereinafter called the Act ) and will be disposed of by this judgment . The appellants hold personal inams which are covered by Bombay Acts Nos . 11 and VII of 1863 . The Act was attacked on a number of grounds in the High Court of which only two have 945 been urged before us , namely , ( i ) that the property which has been dealt with under the Act is not an estate and ( ii ) that no compensation has been provided in the Act for taking away the property of the appellants : The writ petitions were opposed by the State of Bombay and the main contention on its behalf was that the Act was protected under article 31 A of the Constitution . Before we deal with the two points raised before us , we should like briefly to refer to the rights which holders of personal inams had by virtue of Bombay Acts Nos . II and VII of 1863 . Act No . 11 extended to certain parts of the Presidency of Bombay and dealt with holders of lands in those parts who were holding lands wholly or partially exempt from the payment of government land revenue . The Act provided for the cases of holders of such lands whose title to exemption had not till then been formally adjudicated . It laid down that if such holders of lands consented to submit to the terms and conditions prescribed in the Act in preference to being obliged to prove their title to the exemption enjoyed by them , the Provincial Government would be prepared to finally authorise and guarantee the continuance , in perpetuity , of the said land to the said holders , their heirs and assigns upon the said terms and subject to the said conditions . The main provision of the Act in this respect was that such holders of land would be entitled to keep their lands in perpetuity subject to payment of ( i ) a fixed annual payment as nazrana in commutation of all claims of the Crown in respect of succession and transfer which shall be calculated at the rate of one anna for each rupee of assessment and ( ii ) a quit rent equal to one fourth of the assessment . There were other provisions in the Act for those cases where the holders of such lands were not prepared to abide by the conditions of the Act and wanted their claims to be adjudicated ; but we are not concerned with those provisions for present purposes . Thus the main right which the holders of lands got by Act 11 was that they held their lands on payment of one fourth of the assessment instead of full 946 assessment plus further one sixteenth of the assessment ; thus they paid in all five annas in the rupee of the full assessment and retained eleven annas in the rupee for themselves . Act No . VII dealt with similar holders of lands in the remaining parts of the Presidency of Bombay , and made similar provisions with this difference that such holders of lands were to pay two annas for each rupee of the assessment as quit rent under section 6 . Thus those who came under Act VII paid only two annas in the rupee of the assessment and retained fourteen annas in the rupee for themselves . We now turn to the provisions of the Act . By section 2 ( c ) inamdar `` is defined as a holder of personal inam and includes any person lawfully holding under or through him . Section 2 ( d ) defines an `` inam village or `` inam land `` while section 2 ( e ) defines `` personal inam Section 3 provides that the Act will not apply to certain inams including devasthan inams or inams held by religious or charitable institutions . The Explanation to the section lays down that by the term `` inams held by religious or charitable institu tions `` will be meant devasthan or dharmadaya inams granted or recognized by the ruling authority for the time being for a religious or charitable institution and entered as such in the alienation register kept under section 53 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code , 1879 ( hereinafter called the Code ) , or in the records kept under the rules made under the . Thus so far as religious or charitable institutions were concerned those inams which they held from the very beginning as devasthan or dharmadaya inams and which were entered in the relevant records were out of the provisions of the Act . Section 4 extinguishes all personal inams and save as expressly provided by or under the provisions of the Act , all rights legally subsisting on the said date in respect of such personal inams were also extinguished subject to certain exceptions which are ,