legal remuneration `` used in section 4 ( 1 ) . It is also urged by Mr. Anthony that even if the statutory presumption is raised against the appellant , in deciding the question as to whether the contrary is proved within the meaning of section 4 ( 1 ) it must be borne in mind that the onus of proof on the appellant is not as heavy as it is on the prosecution in a criminal trial . Let us first consider when the presumption can be raised under section 4 ( 1 ) . In dealing with this question it may be relevant to remember that the presumption is drawn in the light of the provisions of section 161 of the Indian Penal Code . In substance the said section provides inter alia that if a public servant accepts any gratification whatever other than legal remuneration as a motive or reward for doing or forbearing to do any official act , he is guilty of accepting illegal gratification . Section 4 ( 1 ) requires the presumption to be raised whenever it is proved that an accused person has accepted `` any illegal gratification ( other than legal remuneration ) or any valuable thing. '' This clause does not include the receipt of trivial gratification or thing which is covered by the exception prescribed by sub section The argument is that in prescribing the condition precedent for raising a presumption the Legislature has advisedly used the word `` gratification `` and not money or gift or other consideration . In this connection reliance has been placed on the corresponding provision contained in section 2 of the English Prevention of Corruption Act , 1916 ( 6 Geo . 5 , c. 64 ) which uses the words `` any money , gift , or other consideration `` . The use of the 599 word gratification emphasises that it is not the receipt of any money which justifies the raising of the presumption ; something more than the mere receipt of money has to be proved . It must be proved that the money was received by way of bribe . This contention no doubt is supported by the decision of the Rajasthan High Court in The State vs Abhey Singh ( 1 ) as well as the decision of the Bombay High Court in the State vs Pandurang Laxman Parab ( 2 ) . On the other hand Mr. Mathur , for the State , argues that the word `` gratification `` should be construed in its literal dictionary meaning and as such it means satisfaction of appetite or desire ; that is to say the presumption can be raised whenever it is shown that the accused has received satisfaction either of his desire or appetite . No doubt it is conceded by now that in most of the cases it would be the payment of money which would cause gratification to the accused ; but he contests the suggestion that the word `` gratification `` must be confined only to the payment of money coupled with the right that the money should have been paid by way of a bribe . This view has been accepted by the Bombay High Court in a subsequent decision in State vs Pundlik Bhikaji Ahire ( 3 ) and by the Allahabad High Court in Promod Chander Shekhar vs Rex ( 4 ) . Paragraph 3 of section 161 of the Code provides that the word `` gratification `` is not restricted to pecuniary gratification or to gratifications estimable in money . Therefore `` gratification `` mentioned in section 4 ( 1 ) can not be confined only to payment of money . What the prosecution has to prove before asking the court to raise a presumption against an accused person is that the accused person has received a `` gratification other than legal remuneration `` ; if it is shown , as in the present case it has been shown , that the accused received the stated amount and that the said amount was not legal remuneration then the condition prescribed by the section is satisfied . In the context of the remuneration legally payable to , and receivable by , a ( 1 ) A.I.R . ( 2 ) xi . ( 3 ) ( 4 ) I.L.R . 1950 All . 600 public servant , there is no difficulty in holding that where money is shown to have been paid to , and accepted by , such public servant and that the said money does not constitute his legal remuneration , the presumption has to be raised as required by the section . If the word `` gratification `` is construed to mean money paid by way of a bribe then it would be futile or superfluous to prescribe for the raising of the presumption . Technically it may no doubt be suggested that the object which the statutory presumption serves on this construction is that the court may then presume that the money was paid by way of a bribe as a motive or reward as required by section 161 of the Code . In our opinion this could not have been the intention of the Legislature in prescribing the statutory presumption under section 4 ( 1 ) . In the context we see no justification for not giving the word `` gratification `` its literal dictionary meaning . There is another consideration which supports this construction . The presumption has also to be raised when it is shown that the accused person has received any valuable thing . This clause has reference to the offence punishable under section 165 of the Code ; and there . is no doubt that one of the essential ingredients of the said offence is that the valuable thing should have been received by the accused without consideration or for a consideration which he knows to be inadequate . It can not