be suggested that the relevant clause in section 4 ( 1 ) which deals with the acceptance of any valuable thing should be interpreted to impose upon the prosecution an obligation to prove not only that the valuable thing has been received by the accused but that it has been received by him without consideration or for a consideration which he knows to be inadequate . The plain meaning of this clause undoubtedly requires the presumption to be raised whenever it is shown that the valuable thing has been received by the accused without anything more . If that is the true position in respect of the construction of this part of section 4 ( 1 ) it would be unreasonable to hold that the word `` gratification `` in the same clause imports the necessity to prove not only the payment 601 of money but the incriminating character of the said payment . It is true that the Legislature might have used the word `` money `` or `` consideration `` as has been done by the relevant section of the English statute ; but if the dictionary meaning of the word `` gratification `` fits in with the scheme of the section and leads to the same result as the meaning of the word `` valuable thing `` mentioned in the same clause , we see no justification for adding any clause to qualify the word `` gratification '' ; the view for which the appellant contends in effect amounts to adding a qualifying clause to describe gratification . We would accordingly hold that in the present appeal the High Court was justified in raising the presumption against the appellant because it is admitted by him that he received Rs . 375 from Shukla and that the amount thus received by him was other than legal remuneration . What then is the content of the presumption which is raised against the appellant ? Mr. Anthony argues that in a criminal case the onus of proof which the accused is called upon to discharge can never be as heavy as that of the prosecution , and that the High Court should have accepted the explanation given by the appellant because it is a reasonably probable explanation . He contends that the test which can be legitimately applied in deciding whether or not the defence explanation should be accepted can not be as rigorous as can be and must be applied in deciding the merits of the prosecution case . This question has been considered by courts in India and in England on several occasions . We may briefly indicate some of the relevant decisions on this point . In Otto George Gfeller vs The King ( 1 ) the Privy Council was dealing with the case where the prosecution had established that the accused were in possession of goods recently stolen and the point which arose for decision was how the explanation given by the accused about his possession of the said goods would or should be considered by the jury . In that connection Sir George Rankin observed that the appellant did not ( 1 ) A.I.R . 1943 P.C . 211 . 77 602 have to prove his story , but if his story broke down the jury might convict . In other words , the jury might think that the explanation given was one which could not be reasonably true , attributing a reticence or an incuriosity or a guilelessness to him beyond anything that could fairly be supposed . The same view was taken in Rex vs Carr Briant ( 1 ) where it has been observed that in any case where either by statute or at common law some matter is presumed against an accused , `` unless the contrary is proved the jury should be directed that it is for them to decide whether the contrary is proved , that the burden of proof required is less than that required at the bands of the prosecution in proving the case beyond a reasonable doubt , and that the burden may be discharged by evidence satisfying the jury of the probability of that which the accused is called upon to establish `` ( p. 612 ) . In other words , the effect of these observations appears to be to relax to some extent the rigour of `` the elementary proposition that in civil cases the preponderance of probability may constitute sufficient ground for a verdict `` ( p. 611 ) , ( Also vide : Regina vs Dunbar ( 2 ) ) . It is on the strength of these decisions that Mr. Anthony contends that in deciding whether the contrary has been proved or not under section 4 ( 1 ) the High Court should not have applied the same test as has to be applied in dealing with the prosecution case . The High Court should have inquired not whether the explanation given by the appellant is wholly satisfactory but whether it is a reasonably possible explanation or not . On behalf of the State it is urged by Mr. Mathur that in construing the effect of the clause `` unless the contrary is proved `` we must necessarily refer to the definition of the word `` proved `` prescribed by section 3 of the Evidence Act . A fact is said to be proved when , after considering the matter before it , the Court either believes it to exist or considers its existence so probable that a prudent man ought under the circumstances of the particular case to act on the supposition that it exists . He has also relied on section 4 which provides that whenever it is directed that the ( 1 ) ( 2 ) at p. 11 . 603 court shall presume a fact it shall record such fact as proved unless and until it is disproved . The argument is that there is not