the order under appeal because it held that , on the facts of the case , a statutory presumption under section 4 had to be raised and that the said presumption had not been rebutted by the appellant . In other words the High Court did not consider the prosecution evidence apart from the presumption since 596 it placed its decision on the presumption and the failure of the defence to rebut it . In the result the conviction of the appellant was confirmed , the sentence passed against him under section 161 was maintained but the sentence under section 5 ( 2 ) of the Act was reduced to one year . The sentences thus passed were ordered to run concurrently . It is against this order that the present appeal by special leave has been preferred by the appellant . This appeal has been placed before a Constitution Bench because one of the points which the appellant raises for our decision is that section 4 ( 1 ) of the Act which requires a presumption to be raised against an accused person is unconstitutional and ultra vires as it violates the fundamental right guaranteed by article 14 of the Constitution . We would , therefore , first examine the merits of this point . The Act was passed in 1947 with the object of effectively preventing bribery and corruption . Section 4 ( 1 ) provides that where in any trial of an offence punishable under section 161 or section 165 of the Indian Penal Code it is proved that an accused person has accepted or obtained , or has agreed to accept or attempted to obtain , for himself or for any other person , any gratification ( other than legal remuneration ) or any valuable thing from any person , it shall be presumed unless the contrary is proved that he accepted or obtained or agreed to accept or attempted to obtain , that gratification or that valuable thing , as the case may be , as a motive or reward such as is mentioned in the said section 161 , or as the case may be , without consideration or for a consideration which he knows to be inadequate . Mr. Anthony , for the appellant , contends that this section offends against the fundamental requirement of equality before law or the equal protection of laws . It is difficult to appreciate this argument . The scope and effect of the fundamental right guaranteed by article 14 has been considered by this Court on several occasions ; as a result of the decisions of this Court it is well estab . lished that article 14 does not forbid reasonable classific ation for the purposes of legislation ; no doubt it forbids class legislation ; but if it appears that the 597 impugned legislation is based on a reasonable classification founded on intelligible differentia and that the said differentia have a rational relation to the object Sought to be achieved by it , its validity can not be successfully challenged under article 14 ( Vide : Shri Ram Krishna Dalmia vs Shri Justice section R. Tendolkar ( 1 ) . In the present case there can be no doubt that the basis adopted by the Legislature in classifying one class of public servants who are brought within the mischief of section 4 ( 1 ) is a perfectly rational basis . It is based on an intelligible differentia and there can be no difficulty in distinguishing the class of persons covered by the impugned section from other classes of persons who are accused of committing other offences . Legislature presumably realised that experience in courts showed how difficult it is to bring home to the accused persons the charge of bribery ; evidence which is and can be generally adduced in such cases in support of the charge is apt to be treated as tainted , and so it is not very easy to establish the charge of bribery beyond a reasonable doubt . Legislature felt that the evil of corruption amongst public servants posed a serious problem and bad to be effectively rooted out in the interest of clean and efficient administration . That is why the Legislature decided to enact section 4 ( 1 ) with a view to require the raising of the statutory presumption as soon as the condition precedent prescribed by it in that behalf is satisfied . The object which the Legislature thus wanted to achieve is the eradication of corruption from amongst public servants , and between the said object and the intelligible differentia on which the classification is based there is a rational and direct relation . We have , therefore , no hesitation in holding that the challenge to the vires of section 4 ( 1 ) on the ground that it violates article 14 of the Constitution must fail . Incidentally , we may refer ' to the decision of this Court in A. section Krishna vs The State of Madras ( 2 ) in which a similar challenge to the vires of a statutory presumption required to be raised under section 4 ( 2 ) of the Madras Prohibition Act , 10 of 1937 , has been repelled . ( 1 ) ; ( 2 ) ; 598 That takes us to the question of construing section 4 ( 1 ) . When does the statutory presumption fall to be raised , and what is the content of the said presumption ? Mr. Anthony contends that the statutory presumpion can not be raised merely on proof of the fact that the appellant had received Rs . 375 from Shukla ; in order to justify the raising of the statutory presumption it must also be shown by the prosecution that the amount was paid and accepted as by way of bribe . This argument involves the construction of the words `` any gratification other than ,