much room for relaxing the onus of proof where the accused is called upon to prove the contrary under section 4 ( 1 ) . We do not think it necessary to decide this point in the present appeal . We are prepared to assume in favour of the appellant that even if the explanation given by him is a reasonably probable one the presumption raised against him can be said to be rebutted . But is the explanation . given by him reasonably probable ? That is the question which must now be considered . What is his explanation ? He admits that he received Rs . 375 from Shukla but urges that Shukla gave him this amount as a loan in order to enable him to meet the expenses of the clothes for his school going children . In support of this the appellant gave evidence himself , and examined other witnesses , Kishan Chand and Ram Ratan being the principal ones amongst them . The High Court has examined this evidence and has disbelieved it . It has found that Kishan Chand is an interested witness and that the story deposed to by him is highly improbable . Apart from this conclusion reached by the High Court on appreciating oral evidence adduced in support of the defence plea , the High Court has also examined the probabilities in the case . It has found that at the material time the appellant was in possession of a bank balance of Rs . 1,600 and that his salary was about Rs . 600 per month . Besides his children for whose clothing he claims to have borrowed money had to go to school in March and there was no immediate pressure for preparing their clothes . The appellant sought to overcome this infirmity in his explanation by suggesting that he wanted to reserve his bank balance for the purpose of his daughter 's marriage which he was intending to perform in the near future . The High Court was not impressed by this story ; and so it thought that the purpose for which the amount was alleged to have been borrowed could not be a true purpose . Besides the High Court has also considered whether it would have been probable that Shukla 604 should have advanced money to the appellant . Having regard to the relations between the appellant and Shukla it was held by the High Court that it was extremely unlikely that Shukla would have offered to advance any loan to the appellant . It is on a consideration of these facts that the High Court came to the conclusion that the explanation given by the accused was improbable and palpably unreasonable . It is true that in considering the explanation given by the appellant the High Court has incidentally referred to the statement made by him on January 8 , 1953 , before the magistrate , and Mr. Anthony has strongly objected to this part of the judgment . It is urged that the statement made by the appellant before the magistrate after the investigation into the offence had commenced is inadmissible . We are prepared to assume that this criticism is wellfounded and that the appellant 's statement in question should not have been taken into account in considering the probability of his explanation ; but , in our opinion , the judgment of the High Court shows that not much importance was attached to this statement , and that the final conclusion of the High Court was substantially based on its appreciation of the oral evidence led by the defence and on considerations of probability to which we have already referred . Therefore , we are satisfied that the High Court was right in discarding the explanation given by the appellant as wholly unsatisfactory and unreasonable . That being so it is really not necessary in the present appeal to decide the question about the nature of the onus of proof cast upon the accused by section 4 ( 1 ) after the statutory presumption is raised against him . In the result the appeal fails , the order of conviction and sentence passed against the appellant is confirmed and his bail bond cancelled . Appeal dismissed .