any illicit liquor had been recovered as a result of the search , then it ought not to have convicted the appellants on the presumption arising under section 103 without giving the appellants an opportunity to rebut the same . In this case the offence under section 65 ( f ) would be the using , keeping or having in possession a still or apparatus for the purpose of manufacturing any intoxicant other than toddy . It was not established by the evidence that the still or apparatus recovered from the premises occupied by appellant No . 1 was one which is not ordinarily used for the manufacture of toddy . It was further urged on behalf of appellant No . 2 that he could not be convicted either for being in possession of the still or under section 65 ( f ) read with section 81 , that is to say , abetment of an offence under section 65 ( f ) of the Act . This appellant was merely a servant of appellant No . 1 . If any one was in possession of the still it was appellant No . 1 . There was also no evidence to show that appellant No . 2 had abetted 520 appellant No . 1 in coming into possession of the still . Appellant No . 2 was merely using the pump , presumably under the orders of his master , and as he could not be said to be in possession of the still , no presumption against this appellant could arise under section 103 of the Act . We would deal with the case of appellant No . 2 first . There is no evidence that he in any way aided his master to come into possession of the still . It would be reasonable to suppose that when he was using the pump he was doing so on the orders of his master and he may not have been aware of what was being manufactured , whatever suspicion may arise from his conduct . It can not also be said that he was in possession of the still . The still was in the possession of his master . He was merely an employee in the premises and can not be said to be in physical possession of things belonging to his master unless they were left in his custody . It seems to us that whatever suspicion there may be against the appellant No . 2 it can not be said that it has been established beyond reasonable doubt that he was in such possession of the still as would amount to an offence under section 65 ( f ) of the Act . In the circumstances , no presumption could arise under section 103 against him that he was in posses sion of the still for which he could not account satis factorily . We would accordingly allow the appeal of appellant No . 2 and set aside his conviction and sentence . So far as the appellant No . 1 is concerned , there can be no question that he was found in possession of a still which , having regard to the nature of the still as disclosed by the evidence , is ordinarily used for the manufacture of an intoxicant such as liquor . Having regard to the description of the still , as found on the record , we are satisfied that the still in question is not ordinarily used for the manufacture of toddy . Indeed , it is doubtful that any still is required for the manufacture of toddy because toddy is either fermented or not . If the toddy is unfermented the need for a still is unnecessary . On the other hand , if the toddy is fermented , the process of fermentation is a natural 521 one and does not require the aid of any apparatus to ferment it . It was said , however , that by heating the toddy , a higher degree of fermentation takes place and it becomes more potent . We have , however , no evidence on the record as to this . Even if we assume that toddy , when heated , becomes highly fermented and therefore more potent , there is nothing to show that the heating process to achieve this required an elaborate still of the kind found in the premises of appellant No . 1 . It was , however , pointed out that no questions were put to the appellant in order to give him an opportunity to rebut the presumption arising out of section 103 of the Act . It is , however , to be remembered that when the appellant was examined under section 342 of the Code of Criminal Procedure he had volunteered the statement that he did not know about the various contraband seized by the police . Since this was his attitude in the matter , it is difficult 'to understand what further questions could have been put to him to explain the possession of the still and the various other articles found in the premises occupied by him . It is not possible to say in this particular case that this appellant had been prejudiced by the failure of the Magistrate to put to him any specific questions about the still and the other articles found in the premises occupied by him . The presumption which arises under section 103 of the Act is that an offence under the Act is committed where a person is found in mere possession , without further evidence , of any still , utensil , implement or apparatus whatsoever for the manufacture of any intoxicant as are ordinarily used in the manufacture of such intoxicant until the contrary is proved . it is difficult to conceive that the appellant could have given any satisfactory evidence to establish that the still and other articles found