minal Appeal No . 124 of 1959 . Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated June 19 and 20 , 1959 , of the former Bombay High Court in Criminal Appeal No . 411 of 1959 arising out of the judgment and order dated March 17 , 1959 , of the Presidency Magistrate XX Court , Mazagaon , Bombay in Case Nos . 1952 54/P of 1958 . B. M. Mistri , Ravinder Narain , section N. Andley , J . B. Dadachanji , Rameshwar Nath and P. L. Vohra for the Appellants . Nur ud din Ahmed and R. H. Dhebar , for the Respondent . 1960 . November 18 . The Judgment of the Court was delivered by IMAM , J . The appellants were convicted under sections 65 ( b ) , 65 ( f ) and 66 ( b ) of the Bombay Prohibition Act of 1949 , hereinafter referred to as the Act , by the Presidency Magistrate XX Court , Mazagaon , Bombay . The appellant No . 1 was sentenced to 9 months ' rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs . 1,000 under section 65 ( b ) . No separate sentence was imposed under the other sections . Appellant No . 2 was sentenced to 6 months ' rigorous imprisonment and fine of Rs . 500 under section 65 ( b ) . No separate sentence was imposed under the other sections . They appealed to the Bombay High Court against their convictions and sentence . The High Court set aside their convictions under sections 65 ( b ) and 66 ( b ) of the Act but maintained their conviction under section 65 ( f ) read with section 81 relying on the presumption against the appellants arising out of section 103 of the Act . The High Court accordingly directed that the sentence of imprisonment and fine imposed upon the appellants by the Presidency Magistrate under section 65 ( b ) be regarded as the sentence of imprisonment and fine imposed on the appellants under section 65 ( f ) read with section 81 . 66 518 According to the case of the prosecution , there was a search on August 2,1958 , of certain premises in the occupation of appellant No . 1 on the third floor of Dhun Mansion , Khetwadi 12th Lane . A complete working still was found there and both the appellants were working it . Appellant No . 2 was pumping air into the cylinder with a motor pump while appellant No . 1 was holding a rubber tube attached to the tank . An iron stand with a boiler on it was also found there . Below the boiler there was a stove which was burning . There was also a big jar near the still . According to the prosecution , this big jar contained illicit liquor . Another glass jar was used as a receiver which , according to the prosecution , also contained 20 drams of illicit liquor . The , boiler contained four gallons of wash . There were also 11 wooden barrels containing wash . In the drawing room of the premises a small glass jar containing 20 drams of illicit liquor , a bottle of 1 1/2 drams of illicit liquor and a pint bottle containing 3 drams of illicit liquor were also found . A _panchnama was drawn up concerning the recovery of these articles . It was the case of the prosecution that the appellants were manufacturing illicit liquor and were in possession of a still and other materials for the purpose of manufacturing intoxicant and were also in possession of illicit liquor . The Presidency Magistrate was satisfied that a working still and illicit liquor in the glass jars and the two bottles were found in the premises in question . The High Court also was of the opinion that a working still was found there but it thought that it would not be safe to rely upon the conflicting and unsatisfactory evidence in the case to hold that illicit liquor had been found in the premises in question , as it had not been satisfactorily proved that the bottles and the glass jars had been sealed in the presence of the panchas . The High Court was further of the opinion that there was no evidence on the record to show that the very bottles which were attached and the sample bottles in which was contained the wash were the bottles which were examined by the Chemical Examiner in respect 519 of which he made a report to the Magistrate . Accordingly , it was of the opinion that the convictions under sections 65 ( b ) and 66 ( b ) could not stand . On behalf of the appellants it was urged that no presumption under section 103 of the Act could arise as it had not been established , on the findings of the High Court , that the still was an apparatus for the manufacture of any intoxicant as is ordinarily used in the manufacture of any intoxicant . It was further argued that no questions were put to the accused , when they were examined under section 342 of the Code of Criminal Procedure , in this connection and therefore they had been denied the opportunity to rebut the presumption . The Presidency Magistrate had not used the provision , , ; of section 103 against the appellants because he had found that in fact illicit liquor had been recovered from the premises and that the still was for manufacturing such intoxicant . If the Presidency Magistrate had at all intended to use the presumption under section 103 against the appellants , he was bound to have given them an opportunity to rebut it . If at the appellate stage the High Court was of the opinion that it had not been established that