agreement referred to in this Article certainly includes the Instrument of Accession and the Merger Agreement . The effect of the Merger Agreement is clearly one by which factually a Ruler of an Indian State ceases to be a Ruler but for the purposes of the Constitution and for the purposes of the privy purse guaranteed , he is a Ruler as defined in article 366 ( 22 ) of the Constitution . There is nothing in the provisions of article 366 ( 22 ) which requires a court to recognise such a person as a Ruler for purposes outside the Constitution . In our opinion , the High Court rightly held that 507 the appellant was an ex Ruler and that article 366 ( 22 ) of the Constitution did not make him a Ruler for the purposes of the Act . As the appellant was an 'ex Ruler ' , he was within the class of persons who were by name specifically included in the definition of 'proprietor ' and therefore clearly within the scope of the Act . That the appellant was not only an ex Ruler but a maufidar appears to us to be clear . The ordinary dictionary meaning of maufi is `` Released , exempted , exempt from the payment of rent or tax , rent free '' and maufidar is `` A holder of rent free land , a grantee '' . It was common ground in the High Court that the villages in question were exempt from the payment of rent or tax . In our opinion , the High Court rightly took the view that the expression 'maufidar ' was not necessarily confined to a grantee from a State or a Ruler of a State . A maufidar could be a person who was the holder of land which was exempted from the payment of rent or tax . In our opinion , the appellant certainly came within the expression 'maufidar ' besides being an ex Ruler ' of an Indian State merged with Madhya Pradesh . It is , however , contended on behalf of the appellant that the most important part of the definition was the concluding portion where it was stated that in the case of a maufidar he must be a person who by or under the provisions contained in the wajib ul arz applicable to his village , had the right to recover rent or revenue from persons holding land in such village . It was contended that even if the appellant was a maufidar , there was nothing to show that with reference to any village held by him it was entered in the wajib ul arz , that he had a right to recover rent or revenue from persons holding land in such village . In the petition under articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution , filed by the appellant in the High Court , it was nowhere asserted that even if he was regarded as a maufidar it was not entered in the wajib ul arz with respect to any of his maufi villages that he had a right to recover rent or revenue from persons holding land in such villages . From the judgment of the High 508 Court it would appear that no such argument was advanced before it . In the application for a certificate under article 132 ( 1 ) of the Constitution we can find no mention of this . In the statement of the case filed in this Court also there is no mention of this fact . There is thus no material on the record to establish that the appellant as a maufidar had no right to recover rent or revenue from persons holding land in his villages . The burden was on the appellant to prove this fact which he never attempted to discharge . It is impossible therefore to accept this contention on behalf of the appellant raised for the first time before us in the course of the submissions made on behalf of the appellant . Regarding the second point arising out of the definition of 'Mahal ' , the High Court definitely found that the petitioner had given no evidence to establish that the villages in question were not assessed to land revenue . On the contrary , at least with reference to the Bhandar villages documents on the record showed that these villages had been assessed to land revenue . Since it was a question of fact whether the villages had been assessed to land revenue , which was denied on behalf of the State of Madhya Pradesh , the High Court rightly held that the contention of the appellant in this respect could not be accepted . As for the other villages , in Schedules A and B of the petition of the appellant under articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution the High Court , in our opinion , rightly held that the petition was not maintainable as these villages had not yet been recognised by the Government of India as the private property of the appellant . In our opinion , the appeal accordingly fails and is dismissed with costs . Appeal dismissed .