that expression in article 366 ( 22 ) of the Constitution he did not come within the expression 'ex Ruler ' as contained in the definition of the word 'proprietor ' in the Act . The expression 'Ruler ' as defined in article 366 ( 22 ) of the Constitution applied only for interpreting the provisions of the Constitution . The expression 'ex Ruler ' given in the Act must therefore be given the ordinary dictionary meaning . According to Shorter Oxford English Dictionary , 'Ruler ' means `` one who , or that which , exercises rule , especially of a supreme or sovereign kind . One who has control , management , or head ship within some limited sphere '' . The High Court accordingly took the view that although the appellant did exercise such a rule in the past he ceased to exercise it in his former Domain after the agreements of accession and merger had come into operation . Accordingly the appellant must be regarded as an ex Ruler and as he was also a maufidar he fell within the definition of the word 'proprietor ' in the Act . The question whether the villages mentioned in Schedules A and B of the petition under articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution fell in any of the categories , `` Estates , Mahals , Alienated lands '' , was also considered by the High Court . In its opinion they did not fall within the category of Estates or Alienated lands but they did fall within the category of Mahals . According to the definition of 'Mahal ' in section 2 ( j ) of the Act the same must be separately assessed to land 505 revenue . According to the appellant they had not been assessed to land revenue but this was denied on behalf of the State of Madhya Pradesh . The High Court was of the opinion that in these circumstances it was for the appellant to establish that the villages in question had never been assessed to land revenue but no evidence had been led to this effect . On the contrary , according to the High Court , it would appear from the documents on the record that the villages known as 'Bhandar villages ' had been assessed to land revenue . As the rest of the villages in Schedule A and the villages in Schedule B , upto the date of the High Court judgment , had not been recognized as the private property of the appellant by the Government of India as required by the second and third paragraphs of the Merger Agreement , the appellant could not assert his ownership over them . The High Court , accordingly , dismissed his petition under articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution . Two questions in the main were urged before us ( 1 ) whether the appellant is a proprietor within the meaning of that expression in the Act and ( 2 ) whether the villages in question came within the definition of the word 'mahal ' contained in the Act . On behalf of the appellant it had also been urged that the Act could not defeat the rights of the appellant guaranteed under article 3 of the Merger Agreement . It seems clear to us , however , that in view of the provisions of article 363 ( 1 ) of the Constitution any dispute arising out of the Merger Agreement or the Instrument of Accession is beyond the competence of the courts to enquire into . The High Court rightly decided this point against the appellant . With reference to the first point we would first consider whether the appellant is an ex Ruler for the purposes of the Act . That he is so factually can not be denied , since he ceded his State to the Government of India to be integrated with the Central Provinces and Berar ( now the State of Madhya Pradesh ) in such manner as the Government of India thought fit . He further ceded to the Government ' of India full and exclusive authority , jurisdiction and powers in relation 506 to the governance of his State when he agreed that the administration of that State would be transferred to the Government of India as from January 1 , 1948 . The question is whether his recognition for the purposes of the Constitution as Ruler by virtue of the provisions of article 366 ( 22 ) of the Constitution of India continues his status as a Ruler for purposes other than the Constitution . article 366 ( 22 ) states : `` `` Ruler '' in relation to an Indian State means the Prince , Chief or other person by whom any such covenant or agreement as is referred to in clause ( 1 ) of article 291 was entered into and who for the time being is recognised by the President as the Ruler of the State , and includes any person who for the time being is recognised by the President as the successor of such Ruler '' . Article 291 refers to the privy purse payable to Rulers . It states : `` Where under any covenant or agreement entered into by the Ruler of any Indian State before the commencement of this Constitution , the payment of any sums , free of tax , has been guaranteed or assured by the Government of the Dominion of India to any Ruler of such State as privy purse ( a ) such sums shall be charged on , and paid out of , the Consolidated Fund of India ; and ( b ) the sums so paid to any Ruler shall be exempt from all taxes on income. '' Article 291 refers to any covenant or agreement entered into by the Ruler of any Indian State before the commencement of the Constitution . The covenant or