made realisable from the Contractors two thirds , namely , Rs . 28,42,000 approximately , has to be realised in any case . After the two thirds amount aforesaid has been realised from the contractors on account of supply of the equipments by the Corporation , the Corporation had to consider the date or dates of the `` taking over '' of the equipment after assessing the extent to which it 534 had depreciated as a result of the working on the project in order to arrive at the `` residual value '' of the same . The refund of the one third of the price or such other sum as may be determined as the `` residual value '' would depend upon the further condition that the Corporation was fully satisfied that their `` residual life '' shall , under no circumstances , fall below one third of their respective standard life as agreed upon by the parties . It would , thus , appear that the `` taking over '' of such of the equipments as were available to be returned was not an unconditional term . The Corporation was bound to take them over only if it was satisfied that their `` residual life '' was not less than one third of the standard life fixed by the parties . It is clear from the terms and conditions quoted above that there was no right in the contractors to return any of the machinery and equipments at any time they liked , or found it convenient to do so . The conditions which apply to all equipments , whether in Group A or in Group B , are also relevant to determine the nature of the transaction . The contractors are required to `` continuously maintain proper machine cards showing certain relevant particulars '' . It is their duty to maintain the equipments in good running condition and to regularly and effectively service them . No item of machinery and equipment could be removed by the contractors under any circumstances until the full cost thereof had been recovered from them and even then only if the removal of those items of machinery or equipment was not likely to impede the satisfactory progress of the work . Then follows the most important condition that the Contractors themselves shall have to replenish their stock of spare parts of the machinery made available to them by the Corporation . When spare parts are supplied to the Contractors by the Corporation , they shall be liable for the actual price of those parts inclusive of freight , insurance and customs duty . Those substantially are the terms of the contract between the parties and the sole question for determination in this appeal is whether , in respect of the machinery and equipments admittedly supplied by the Corporation to the Contractors , it was a mere 535 contract of hiring , as contended on behalf of the appellant Corporation , or a sale or a hire purchase , as contended on behalf of the respondent State . The law on the subject is not in doubt , but the difficulty arises in applying that law to the facts and circumstances of a particular case on a proper construction of the document evidencing the transaction between the parties . It is well settled that a mere contract of hiring , without more , is a species of the contract of bailment , which does not create a title in the bailee , but the law of hire purchase has undergone consider able development during the last half a century or more and has introduced a number of variations , thus leading to categories , and it becomes a question of some nicety as to which category a particular contract between the parties comes under . Ordinarily , a contract of hire purchase confers no title on the hirer , but a mere option to purchase on fulfillment of certain conditions . But a contract of hire purchase may also provide for the agreement to purchase the thing hired by deferred payments subject to the condition that title to the thing shall not pass until all the instalments have been paid . There may be other variations of a contract of hire purchase depending upon the terms agreed between the parties . When rights in third parties have been created by acts of parties or by operation of law , the question , which does not arise here , may arise as to what exactly were the rights and obligations of the parties to the original contract . It is equally well settled that for the purpose of determining as to which category a particular contract comes under , the court will look at the substance of the agreement and not at the mere words describing the category . One of the tests to determine the question whether a particular agreement is a contract of mere hiring or whether it is a contract of purchase on a system of deferred payments 'of the purchase price is whether there is any binding obligation on the hirer to purchase the goods . Another useful test to determine such a controversy is whether there is a right reserved to the hirer to return the goods at any time during the subsistence of the contract . If there is such a right reserved , then 536 clearly there is no contract of sale , vide Helby vs Matthews and others ( 1 ) . Applying these two tests to the transaction in the present case , it becomes clear that it was a case of sale of goods with a condition of repurchase on certain conditions depending upon the satisfaction of the Corporation as to whether the `` residual life '' of the machinery or the equipment was not less than one third of the standard life in accordance with the terms agreed between the parties . It