was that the total ban on the employer against altering any condition of ser vice to the prejudice of workmen and against any action for misconduct was modified . The amended section provided that where an employer intended to take action in regard to any matter connected with the dispute or in regard to any misconduct connected with the dispute , he could only do so with the express permission in writing of the authority before which the dispute was pending ; but where the matter in regard to which the employer wanted to take action in accordance with the Standing Orders applicable to a workman was not connected with the dispute or the misconduct for which action was proposed to be taken was not connected with the dispute , the employer could take such action as he thought proper , subject only to this that in case of discharge or dismissal one month 's wages should be paid and an application should be made to the tribunal before which the dispute was pending for approval of the action taken against the employee by the employer . In view of this change in the law , the appellant mills thought that as the misconduct of the respondent in the present case was not connected with the dispute then pending adjudication , they were entitled to dismiss him after paying him one month 's wages and applying for approval of the action taken by them . Consequently , no application was made to the tribunal for permission in accordance with the order of the General Manager of March 5 , 1957 , already referred to . Later , on April 2 , 19579 an order of dismissal was passed by the General Manager after tendering one month 's wages to the respondent and an application was made to the authority concerned for approval of the action taken against the respondent . 594 Thereupon the respondent filed another application under section 33 A of the Act on April 9 , 1957 , in which he complained that the appellant mills had terminated his services without the express permission of the tribunal and that this was a contravention of the provisions of section 33 of the Act ; he therefore prayed for necessary relief . On April 18 , 1957 , an interim order was passed by the tribunal on this application by which as a measure of interim relief , the appellant mills were ordered to permit the respondent to work with effect from April 19 and the respondent was directed to report for duty . It was also ordered that if the management failed to take the respondent back , the respondent would be paid his full wages with effect from April 19 after he had reported for duty . On May 6 , 1957 , however , the application dated April 9 , 1957 , was dismissed as defective and therefore the interim order of April 18 also came to an end . On the same day ( namely , May 6 , 1957 ) , the respondent made another application under section 33 A in which he removed the defects and again complained that his dismissal on April 2 , 1957 , without the express previous permission of the tribunal was against section 33 and prayed for proper relief . It is this application which is pending at present and has not been disposed of , though more than three years have gone by . It is also not clear what has happened to the first application of September 4,1956 , in which the respondent complained that his conditions of service had been altered to his prejudice by his transfer from one shift to another . Applications under section 33 and section 33 A of the Act should be disposed of quickly and it is a matter of regret that this matter is pending for over three years , though the appellant mills must also share the blame for this state of affairs ' However , the appellant mills gave a reply on May 14,1957 , to the last application under section 33 A and objected that there was no breach of section 33 of the Act , their case being that the amended section 33 applied to the order of dismissal passed on April 2 , 1957 . Further , on the merits , the appellant mills ' case was that the dismissal was in the circumstances justified . 595 The matter came up before the tribunal on May 16 , 1957 . On this date , the tribunal again passed an interim order , which was to the effect that as a measure of interim relief , the respondent should be permitted to work from May 17 and the respondent was directed to report for duty . It was further ordered that in case the management failed to take him back , they would pay him his full wages with effect from the date he reported for duty . Thereupon the appellant mills filed a writ petition before the High Court . Their main contention before the High Court was two fold . In the first place it was urged that the tribunal had no jurisdiction to entertain an application under section 33 A of the Act in the circumstances of this case after the amended sections 33 and 33 A came into force from March 10 , 1957 . In the alternative it was contended that the tribunal had no jurisdiction to pass an interim order of reinstatement or in lieu thereof payment of full wages to the respondent even before considering the questions raised in the application under section 33 A on the merits . The High Court held on the first point that in view of section 30 of the Industrial Disputes ( Amendment and Miscellaneous Provisions ) Act , No . XXXVI of 1956 , the present case would be governed by section