tax on goods produced or manufactured and is in the nature of a duty of excise , the basis of the tax being so much of the value of the goods . If these two taxes are duties of excise , 577 I fail to see any difference in pith and substance between these two taxes and the cess levied under the Act . It is however urged that the method employed in the Act for realising the cess is only a method of quantification of the fee and merely because of this quantification , the pith and substance of the impost does not change from a fee to a duty of excise . Reference in this connection was made to three cases of quantification . In Sir Byramjee Jeejeebhoy vs The Province of Bombay ( 1 ) , a question arose with respect to a tax imposed on urban immovable property , whether it was a tax on lands and buildings . The challenge to the tax was on the ground that it was tax on income or capital value within items 54 and 55 of List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Government of India Act and could not therefore be imposed by the Bombay Legislature . It was held that the tax was a tax on lands and buildings within the meaning of item 42 of List II of the same Schedule and that the basis of the tax , which was the annual value , would not convert it into a tax on income or capital value . The High Court considered the pith and substance of the said Act and came to the conclusion that every tax on annual value was not necessarily a tax on income and it was held that the mode of assessment of a tax did not determine its character and one has to look to the essential character of the tax to decide whether it was a tax on income or on lands and buildings . Looking to the pith and substance of the tax it was held in that case that it was a tax on lands and buildings . That decision was in the circumstances of that case right because the intention of the legislature was not to tax the income of any one ; the essential character of the tax in that case was to tax the lands and buildings and the annual value of the lands and buildings was only taken as a mode of levying the tax . In the present case , however , the very mode of the levy of the cess is nothing other than the levy of a duty of excise and therefore the principle of quantification for purposes of a fee can not be extended to ( 1 ) I.L.R . 578 such an extent as to convert what is in pith and substance a tax into a fee on that basis . The next case to which reference was made is Municipal Corporation , Ahmedabad vs Patel Gordhandas Hargovandas ( 1 ) . In that case the Ahmedabad Bo . rough Municipality had levied a rate on open lands and the basis of the levy was one per centum of the capital value of the land . It was urged that this amounted to a capital levy within entry 54 of List I ; but the court repelled that contention and held that the levy was in pith and substance a tax on lands , which came within entry 42 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Government of India Act . A distinction was made between a tax on land which is levied on the basis of its capital value and a tax which is on capital treating it as an asset itself . This decision also , if I may say so with respect , is correct , for the basic idea was to tax lands and some method had to be found for doing so and the method evolved , though it might look like a capital levy , was in pith and substance not so . But the theory of quantification which is the basis of these two cases can not be stretched so far as to turn levies which are in pith and substance taxes into fees , by the process of attaching certain services and creating a fund . The third case is Ralla Ram vs The Province of East Punjab ( 2 ) . That was a case of a tax on lands and buildings and annual value was the basis on which the tax was levied . The Federal Court rightly pointed out that the pith and substance of the levy had to be seen and on that view it was not income tax but a tax on lands and buildings and the method adopted was merely a method of quantification . The Federal Court also pointed out that `` where there is an apparent conflict between an Act of the Federal Legislature and an Act of the Provincial Legislature , we must try to ascertain the pith and substance or the true nature and character of the conflicting provisions and that before an Act is declared ultra vires , there should be an attempt to reconcile the two conflicting jurisdictions , and , only if such a reconciliation should prove ( 1 ) I.L.R . ( 2 ) 579 impossible , the impugned Act should be declared invalid. '' It may also be pointed out that in all these three cases , one source of income of an individual or one item out of the total capital of an individual was the basis of calculation while income tax or capital levy is generally on the total income or the total capital of a person . That aspect must have gone into the decision that the method employed was merely a mode for imposing a tax on lands