Solicitor General . Would that meet the requirements of Entry 54 in List I of the Seventh Schedule ? It is difficult to answer this question in the affirmative because the relevant provisions of the Constitution are prospective and the declaration by Parliament specified by Entry 54 must be declaration made by 565 Parliament subsequent to the date when the Constitution came into force . Unless a declaration is made by Parliament after the Constitution came into force it will not satisfy the requirements of Entry 54 , and that inevitably would mean that the impugned Act is validly enacted under Entry 23 in List II of the Seventh Schedule . If that be the true position then it would follow that even on the assumption that el . 16 of the Adaptation of Laws Order and article 372 can be construed as suggested by the petitioners the impugned Act would be valid . Faced with this difficulty , both the learned Additional Solicitor General and Mr. Amin argued that cl . 21 of the said Order may be of some assistance . Clause 21 reads thus : `` Any Court , Tribunal , or authority required or empowered to enforce any law in force in the territory of India immediately before the appointed day shall , notwithstanding that this Order makes no provision or insufficient provision for the adaptation of the law for the purpose of bringing it into accord with the provisions of the Constitution , construe the law with all such adaptations as are necessary for the said purpose '' . Assuming that this clause is valid we do not see how it is relevant in the present case . All that this clause purports to do is to empower the Court to construe the law with such adaptations as may be necessary for the purpose of bringing it in accord with the provisions of the Constitution . There is no occasion to make any adaptation in construing Act LIII of 1948 for bringing it into accord with the provisions of the Constitution at all . The said Act has been continued under article 372 ( 1 ) and there is no constitutional defect in the said Act for the avoidance of which any adaptation is necessary . In fact what the petitioners seek to do is to read in section 2 of the said Act the declaration by Parliament required by Entry 54 so as to make the impugned Act ultra vires . Quite clearly cl . 21 can not be pressed into service for such a purpose . Therefore , we reach this position that the field covered by Act LIII of 1948 is substantially the same as the field covered by the 72 566 impugned Act but the declaration made by section 2 of the said Act does not constitutionally amount to the requisite declaration by Parliament , and so the limitation imposed by Entry 54 does not come into operation in the present case . Act LIII of 1948 continues in operation under article 372 ; with this modification that so far as the State of Orissa is concerned it is the impugned Act that governs and not the Central Act . Article 372 ( 1 ) in fact provides for the continuance of the existing law until it is altered , repealed or amended by a competent Legislature or other competent authority . In the absence of the requisite parliamentary declaration the legislative competence of the Orissa Legislature under Entry 23 read with Entry 66 is not impaired , and so the said Legislature is competent either to repeal , alter or amend the existing law which is the Central Act LIII of 1948 ; in effect , after the impugned Act was passed , so far as Orissa is concerned the Central Act must be deemed to be repealed . This position is fully consistent with the provisions of article 372 . The result is that the material words used in cls . 16 and 21 being unambiguous and explicit , it is difficult to give effect to the two general considerations on which reliance has been placed by the petitioners . Incidentally the present case discloses that in regard to the requisite parliamentary declaration prescribed by Entry 54 in List I in its application to the pre Constitution Acts under corresponding Entry 36 in List I of the Constitution Act of 1935 , there is a lacuna which has not been covered by any clauses of the Adaptation of Laws Order ; that , however , is a matter for Parliament to consider . There is one more point which is yet to be considered . Mr. Amin contends that Entry 23 in List II is subject to the provisions in List I with respect to regulation and development under the control of the Union , and according to him Entry 52 in List I is one of such provisions . In this connection he relies on the said Entry which deals with industries the control of which by the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest , and Industries ( Development and Regulation ) Act , 1951 ( LXV 567 of 1951 ) . This Act has been passed to provide for the development and regulation of certain industries one of which undoubtedly is coal mining industry . Section 2 of this Act declares that it is expedient in the public interest that the Union should take under its control the industries specified in the First Schedule . This declaration is a declaration made by Parliament , and if the provisions of the Act read with the said declaration covered the same field as is covered by the impugned Act , it would undoubtedly affect the vires of the impugned Act ; but in dealing with this question it is important to bear in mind the doctrine of pith and substance .