b ) opium , Indian hemp and other narcotic drugs and narcotics , but including medicinal and toilet preparations containing alcohol or any substance included in sub paragraph ( b ) of this entry. '' This item gives power to Parliament to impose duties of excise on all goods manufactured . or produced in India with certain exceptions mentioned therein . Taking this particular case , coal is produced from the mine and would clearly be covered by the words `` other goods produced in India '' and a duty of excise can be levied on it . What then exactly is meant by a duty of excise ? Reference in this connection may be made to Governor General in Council vs Province of Madras ( 1 ) . In that case the point arose whether the sales tax imposed by the Madras Legislature was a duty of excise . The Privy Council pointed out that ( 1 ) ( 1945 ) L.R . 72 I.A . 91 . 575 `` in a Federal constitution in which there is a division of legislative powers between Central and Provincial legislatures , it appears to be inevitable that controversy should arise whether one or other legislature is not exceeding its own , and encroaching on the other 's , constitutional legislative power , and in such a controversy it is a principle , which their Lordships do not hesitate to apply in the present case , that it is not the name of the tax but its real nature , its 'pith and substance ' as it has sometimes been said which must determine into what category it falls. '' The Privy Council went on to consider what a duty of excise was and said that `` it is primarily a duty levied on a manufacturer or producer in respect of the commodity manufactured or produced . It is a tax on goods not on sales or the proceeds of sale of goods . Though sometimes a duty of excise may be imposed on first sales , a duty of excise and a tax on the sale of goods were separate and distinct imposts and in law do not overlap . '' The Privy Council approved of the decisions of the Federal Court in re The Central Provinces and Berar Sales of Motor Spirit and Lubricants Taxation Act , 1938 ( 1 ) and The Province of Madras vs Messrs. Boddu Paidanna and Sons ( 2 ) . It seems to have been urged that because in some cases a duty of excise may be levied on the occasion of the first sale and a sales tax may also be levied on the same occasion , there is really no difference between the two . It is however clear that a duty of excise is primarily a tax on goods manufactured or produced ; it is not a tax on the sale of goods , though the taxing authority may as a matter of concession to the producer not charge the tax immediately the goods are produced and may postpone it , to make it easy for the producer to pay the tax , till the first sale is made by him ; nevertheless the charge is still on the goods and is therefore a duty of excise . On the other hand , a sales tax can only be levied when a sale is made and there is nothing to prevent its levy on the first sale . The two concepts ( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 1948 ) F.C.R . go . 576 are however different and , as the Privy Council pointed out , a sales tax and a duty of excise are separate and distinct imposts and in law do not overlap . The pith and substance of a duty of excise is that it is primarily a duty levied on a manufacturer or producer in respect of the commodity manufactured or produced . Let me therefore see what the Orissa Legislature has done in the present case . It has levied a cess at a rate not exceeding five per centum on the value of minerals at the pit 's mouth on all extracted minerals . All the extracted minerals are nothing other than goods produced and the cess is levied on the goods produced at a rate not exceeding five per centum of the value at the pit 's mouth . The cess therefore in the present case can not be anything other than a duty of excise . The pith and substance of the cess in this case falls fairly and squarely within entry 84 of List I and is therefore a duty of excise , which can not be levied by the Orissa State Legislature . I may in this connection refer to the cesses levied by the Central Legislature and Parliament by Act XXXII of 1947 and by the Act No . LXV of of Act XXXII of 1947 lays down that there shall be levied and collected as a cess for the purposes of that Act a duty of excise on all coal and coke dispatched from collieries at such rate not less than four annas and not more than eight annas per ton as may from time to time be fixed by the Central Government by notification in the Official Gazette . This is obviously a tax on the goods produced , the basis of the tax being so much per ton . Again sec . 9 of Act LXV of 1951 lays down that there may be levied and collected as a cess for the purposes of that Act on all goods manufactured or produced in any such scheduled industry as may be specified in this behalf by the Central Government by notified order a duty of excise at a rate not exceeding two annas per centum of the value of the goods . This again is clearly a