was called upon to consider , inter ( 1 ) ; ( 2 ) [ 1954 ] S.C.R . 1055 . ( 3 ) A.I.R . 1954 Mad . 621 . 548 alia , the validity of section 11 of the Madras Commercial Crops Markets Act 20 of 1933 and Rules 28 ( 1 ) and 28 ( 3 ) framed thereunder . Section 11 ( 1 ) levied a fee on the sales of commercial crops within the notified area and section 12 provided that the amounts collected by the Market Committee shall be constituted into a Market Fund which would be utilised for acquiring a site for the market , constructing a building , maintaining the market and meeting the expenses of the Market Committee . The argument that these provisions amounted to services rendered to the notified area and thus made the levy a fee and not a tax was not accepted by the Court . Venkatarama Aiyar , J. , took the view that the funds raised from the merchants for a construction of a market in substance amounted to an exaction of a tax . Whether or not the construction of a market amounted to a service to the notified area it is unnecessary for us to consider . Besides , as we have already pointed out we have now three decisions of this Court which have authoritatively dealt with this matter , and it is in the light of the said decisions that the present question has to be considered . In Attorney General for British Columbia vs Esquimalt and Nanaimo Railway Co. ( 1 ) , the Privy Council had to deal with the validity of forest protection impost levied by the relevant section of the Forest Act R. section B. C. 1936 . The lands in question were statutorily exempted from taxation , and it was urged against the validity of the impost that the levy of the said impost was not a service charge but a tax ; and since it contravened the exemption from taxation granted to the land it was invalid . This plea was upheld by the Privy Council . The Privy Council did consider two circumstances which were relevant ; the first that the levy was on a defined class of interested individuals , and the second that the fund raised did not fall into the general mass of the proceeds of taxation but was applicable for a special and limited purpose . It was conceded that these considerations were relevant but the Privy Council thought that the weight to be attached to them should not be exagge ( 1 ) 540 rated . In appreciating the weight of the said relevant circumstances the Privy Council was impressed by the fact that the lands in question formed an important part of the national wealth of the Province and their proper administration , including in particular protection against fire , is a matter of high public concern ' as well as one of particular interest to individuals . In other words , the effect of the impugned provision was , that the expenses of what was the public service of the greatest importance for the Province as a whole had been divided between the general body of tax . payers and those individuals who had a special interest in having their property protected . It would thus appear that this decision proceeded on the basis that what was claimed to be a special service to the lands in question was in reality an item in public service itself , and so the element of quid pro quo was absent . It is true that when the Legislature levies a fee for rendering specific services to a specified area or to a specified class of persons or trade or business , in the last analysis such services may indirectly form part of services to the public in general . If the special service rendered is distinctly and primarily meant for the benefit of a specified class or area the fact that in benefiting the specified class or area the State as a whole may ultimately and indirectly be benefited would not detract from the character of the levy as a fee . Where , however , the specific service is indistinguishable from pub lic service , and in essence is directly a part of it , diffe rent considerations may arise . In such a case it is necessary to enquire what is the primary object of the levy and the essential purpose which it is intended to achieve . Its primary object and the essential purpose must be distinguished from its ultimate or incidental results or consequences . That is the true test in determining the character of the levy . In Parton . vs Milk Board ( Victoria ) ( 1 ) , the validity of the levy imposed on dairymen and owners of milk depots by section 30 of the Milk Board Act of 1933 as amended by subsequent Acts of 1936 1939 was ( 1 ) ; 70 550 challenged , and it was held by Dixon , J. , that the levy of the said contribution amounted to the imposition of a duty of excise . This decision was substantially based on the ground that the statutory board `` performs no particular service for the dairyman or the owner of a milk depot for which his contribution may be considered as a fee or recompense '' that is to say the element of quid pro quo was absent qua the persons on whom the levy had been imposed . Therefore none of the decisions on which Mr. Amin has relied can assist his case . Let us now examine the scheme of the impugned Act . As the preamble shows it has been passed because it was thought expedient to constitute mining areas and a Mining Areas Development Fund in the State of Orissa