, 1950 , on which reliance has been placed in support of this argument is el . 16 in the Supplementary Part of the said Order . This clause provides that subject to the provisions of this Order any reference by whatever form of words in any existing law to any authority competent at the date of the passing of that law to exercise any powers or authorities , or to discharge any functions , in any part of India shall , where a corresponding new authority has been constituted by or under the Constitution , have effect until duly repealed or amended as if it were a reference to that new authority . The petitioners contend that as a result of this clause the declaration made by the Dominion Legislature in section 2 of the Central Act must now be held to be the declaration made by Parliament . Is this contention justified on a fair and reasonable construction of the clause ? That is the crux of the problem . In considering this question it would be relevant to recall the scheme of the Adaptation of Laws Order , 1950 . It consists of Three Parts . Part 1 deals with the adaptation of Central Laws and indicates the adaptation made therein ; Part 11 deals with the adaptation of Provincial Laws and follows the same pattern ; and Part III is a Supplementary Part which contains provisions in the nature of supplementary provisions . A perusal of the clauses contained in Part 563 I would show that though some adaptation was made in Act LIII of 1948 it was not thought necessary to make an adaptation in section 2 of the said Act whereby the declaration implied in the said section has been expressly adapted into a declaration by Parliament . Now , the effect of el . 16 in substance is to equate an authority competent at the date of the passing of the existing law to exercise any powers or authorities , or to discharge any functions with a corresponding new authority which has been constituted by or under the Constitution . Reference to the authority in the con . text would suggest cases like reference to the Governor General eo nomine , or Central Government which respectively would be equated with the President or the Union Government . Prima facie the reference to authority would not include reference to a Legislature ; in this connection it may be relevant to point out that article 372 ( 1 ) refers to a competent Legislature as distinguished from other competent authorities . That is the first difficulty in holding that el . 16 refers to the Dominion Legislature and purports to equate it with the Parliament . It is clear that for the application of this clause it is necessary that a reference should have been made to the authority by some words whatever may be their form . In other words it is only where the existing law refers expressly to some authority that this clause can be invoked . It is difficult to construe the first part of this clause to include authorities to which no reference is made by any words in terms , but to which such reference may be implied ; and quite clearly the Dominion Legislature is not expressly referred to in section 2 . In construing the present clause we think it would be straining the language of the clause to hold that an authority to which no reference is made by words in any part of the existing law could claim the benefit of this clause . Besides , there is no doubt that when the clause refers to any authority competent to exercise any powers or authorities , or to discharge any functions , it refers to the powers , authorities or functions attributable to the existing law itself ; that is to say , authorities 564 which are competent to exercise powers or to discharge functions under the existing laws are intended to be equated with corresponding new authorities . It is impossible to hold that the Dominion Legislature is an authority which was competent to exercise any power or to discharge any function under the existing law . Competence to exercise power to discharge functions to which the clause refers must inevitably be related to the existing law and not to the Constitution Act of 1935 which would be necessary if Dominion Legislature was to be included as an authority under this clause . The Constitution Act of 1935 had been repealed by the Constitution and it was not , and could not obviously be , the object of the Adaptation of Laws Order to make any adaptation in regard to the said Act . Therefore , the competence of the Dominion Legislature which flowed from the relevant provisions of the Constitution Act of 1935 is wholly outside this clause . We have carefully considered the arguments urged before us by the learned Additional Solicitor General and Mr. Amin but we are unable to hold that cl . 16 can be pressed into service for the purpose of supporting the conclusion that the declaration by the Dominion Legislature implied in section 2 of Act LIII of 1948 can , by virtue of cl . 16 , be held to be a declaration by Parliament within the meaning of the relevant Entries in the Constitution . If that be the true position then the alternative challenge to the vires of the Act based on el . 16 of the Adaptation of Laws Order must fail . There is another possible argument which may prima facie lead to the same conclusion . Let us assume that the result of reading article 372 and cl . 16 of the Adaptation of Laws Order is that under section 2 of Act LIII of 1948 there is a declaration by Parliament as suggested by the petitioners and the learned Additional