or for prohibiting the grant of such leases in respect of any mineral or in any area . Sections 4 and 5 thus 560 purport to prescribe necessary conditions in accordance with which mining leases have to be executed . This part of the Act has no relevance to our present purpose . Section 6 of the Act , however , empowers the Central Government to make rules by notification in the official gazette for the conservation and development of minerals . Section 6 ( 2 ) lays down several matters in respect of which rules can be framed by the Central Government . This power is , however , without prejudice to the generality of powers conferred on the Central Government by section 6 ( 1 ) . Amongst the matters covered by section 6 ( 2 ) is the levy and collection of royalties , fees or taxes in respect of minerals mined , quarried , excavated or collected . It is true that no rules have in fact been framed by the Central Government in regard to the levy and collection of any fees ; but , in our opinion , that would not make any difference . If it is held that this Act contains the declaration referred to in Entry 23 there would be no difficulty in holding that the declaration covers the field of conservation and development of minerals , and the said field is indistinguishable from the field covered by the impugned Act . What Entry 23 provides is that the legislative competence of the State Legislature is subject to the provisions of List I with respect to regulation and development under the control of the Union , and Entry 54 in List I requires a declaration by Parliament by law that regulation and development of mines should be under the control of the Union in public interest . Therefore , if a Central Act has been passed for the purpose of providing for the conservation and development of minerals , and if it contains the requisite declaration , then it would not be competent to the State Legislature to pass an Act in respect of the subject matter covered by the said declaration . In order that the declaration should be effective it is not necessary that rules should be made or enforced ; all that this required is a declaration by Parliament that it is expedient in the public interest to take the regulation and development of mines under the control of the Union . In such a case the test must be whether the legislative declaration covers the field 561 or not . Judged by this test there can be no doubt that the field covered by the impugned Act is covered by the Central Act LIII of 1948 . It still remains to consider whether section 2 of the said Act amounts in law to a declaration by Parliament as required by article 54 . When the said Act was passed in 1948 the legislative powers of the Central and the Provincial Legislatures were governed by the relevant Entries in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution Act of 1935 . Entry 36 in List I corresponds to the present Entry 54 in List I . It reads thus : `` Regulation of Mines and Oil Fields and mineral development to the extent to which such regulation and development under Dominion control is declared by Dominion law to be expedient in public interest '' . It would be notic ed that the declaration required by Entry 36 is a declaration by Dominion law . Reverting then to section 2 of the said Act it is clear that the declaration contained in the said section is put in the passive voice ; but in the context there would be no difficulty in holding that the said declaration by necessary implication has been made by Dominion law . It is a declaration contained in a section passed by the Dominion Legislature ' and so it is obvious that it is a declaration by a Dominion law ; but the question is : Can this declaration by a Dominion law be regarded constitutionally as declaration by Parliament which is required by Entry 54 in List I . It has been urged before us by the learned Additional Solicitor General and Mr. Amin that in dealing with this question we should bear in mind two general considerations . The Central Act has been continued under article 372 ( 1 ) of the Constitution as an existing law , and the effect of the said constitutional provision must be that the continuance of the existing law would be as effective and to the same extent after the Constitution came into force as before . It is urged that after the said Act was passed and before the Con stitution came into force no Provincial Legislature could have validly made a law in respect of the field covered by the said Act , and it would be commonsense to assume that the effect of the continuance of the 562 said law under article 372 ( 1 ) can not be any different . In other words , if no Provincial Legislature could have trespassed on the field covered by the said Act before the Constitution , the position would and must be the same even after the Constitution came into force . It is also contended that for the purpose of bringing the provision of existing laws into accord with the provisions of the Constitution the President was given power to make by order appropriate adaptations and modifications of such laws , and the object of making such adaptations obviously was to make the continuance of the existing laws fully effective . It is in the light of these two general considerations , so the . argument runs , must the point in question be considered . The relevant clause in the Adaptation of Laws Order