Jeejeebhoy vs The Province of Bombay ( 1 ) . This decision has been expressly approved by the Privy Council in Governor General in Council vs Province of Madras ( 2 ) . Consistently with the decision of the Federal Court their Lordships expressed the opinion that `` a duty of excise is primarily a duty levied on a manufacturer or producer in respect of the commodity manufactured or produced . It is a tax on goods and not on sales or the proceeds of the sale of goods . The two taxes , the one levied on the manufacturer in respect of his goods and the other on the vendor in respect of his sales may in one sense overlap , but in law there is no overlapping ; the taxes are separate and distinct imposts . If in , fact they overlap that may be because the taxing authority imposing a duty of excise finds it convenient to impose that duty at the moment when the excisable article ( 1 ) I.L.R . ( 2 ) ( 1945 ) L.R . 72 I.A . 91 . 71 558 leaves the factory or workshop for the first time on the occasion of its sale '' . In that case the question was whether the tax authorised by the Madras General Sales Tax Act , 1939 , was a tax on the sale of goods or was a duty of excise , and the Privy Council held it was the former and not the latter . Therefore , in our opinion , the mere fact that the levy imposed by the impugned Act has adopted the method of determining the rate of the levy by reference to the minerals produced by the mines would not by itself make the levy a duty of excise . The method thus adopted may be relevant in considering the character of the impost but its effect must be weighed along with and in the light of the other relevant circumstances . In this connection it is always necessary to bear in mind that where an impugned statute passed by a State Legislature is relatable to an Entry in List II it is not permissible to challenge its vires only on the ground that the method adopted by it for the recovery of the impost can be and is generally adopted in levying a duty of excise . Thus considered the conclusion is inevitable that the cess levied by the impugned Act is neither a tax nor a duty of excise but is a fee . The next question which arises is , even if the cess is a fee and as such may be relatable to Entries 23 and 66 in List II its validity is still open to challenge because the legislative competence of the State Legislature under Entry 23 is subject to the provisions of List I with respect to regulation and development under the control of the Union ; and that takes us to Entry 54 in List I . This Entry reads thus : `` Regulation of mines and mineral development to the extent to which such regulation and development under the control of the Union is declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest '' . The effect of reading the two Entries together is clear . The jurisdiction of the State Legislature under Entry 23 is subject to the limitation imposed by the latter part of the said Entry . If Parliament by its law has declared that regulation and development of mines should in public interest be under the control of the Union , to 559 the extent of such declaration the jurisdiction of the State Legislature is excluded . In other words , if a Central Act has been passed which contains a declaration by Parliament as required by Entry 54 , and if the said declaration covers the field occupied by the impugned Act the impugned Act would be ultra vires , not because of any repugnance between the two statutes but because the State Legislature had no jurisdiction to pass the law . The limitation imposed by the latter part of Entry 23 is a limitation on the legislative competence of ( , he State Legislature itself . This position is not in dispute . It is urged by Mr. Amin that the field covered by the impugned Act has already been covered by the Mines and Minerals ( Regulation and Development ) Act , 1948 , ( LIII of 1948 ) and he contends that in view of the declaration made by section 2 of this Act the impugned Act is ultra vires . This Central Act was passed to provide for the regulation of mines and oil fields and for the development of minerals . It may be stated at this stage that by Act LXVII of 1957 which has been subsequently passed by Parliament , Act LIII of 1948 has now been limited only to oil fields . We are , however , concerned with the operation of the said Act in 1952 , and at that time it applied to mines as well as oil fields . Section 2 of the Act contains a declaration as to the expediency and control by the Central Government . It reads thus : `` It is hereby declared that it is expedient in the public interest that the Central Government should take under its control the regulation of mines and oil fields and the development of minerals to the extent hereinafter provided '' . It is common ground that at the relevant time this Act applied to coal mines . Section 4 of the Act provides that no mining lease shall be granted after the commencement of this Act otherwise than in accordance with the rules made under this Act . Section 5 empowers the Central Government to make rules by notification for regulating the grant of mining leases