. It consists of 11 sections . Section 3 of the Act provides for the constitution of a mining area whenever it appears to the State Government that it is necessary and expedient to provide amenities like communications , water supply and electricity for the better development of any area in the State of Orissa wherein any mine is situated , or to provide for the welfare of the residents or to workers in any such areas within which persons employed in a mine or a group of mines reside or work . Under this section the State Government has to define the limits of the area . and is given the power to include within such area any local area contiguous to the same or to exclude from such area any local area comprised therein ; that is the effect of section 3 ( 1 ) . Section 3 ( 2 ) empowers the owner or a lessee of a mine or his duly constituted representative in the said area to file objections in respect of any notification issued under section 3 ( 1 ) within the period specified , and the State Government is required to take the said objection into consideration . After considering objections received the State Government is authorised to issue a notification constituting a mining area under section 3 ( 3 ) . Section 4 deals with the imposition and collection of cess . The rate of the levy authorised shall not exceed 5 per centum of the valuation of the minerals at the pit 's mouth . Section 5 provides for the constitution of the Orissa Mining Areas Development 551 Fund . This fund vests in the State Government and has to be administered by such officer or officers as may be appointed by the State Government in that , behalf Section 5 ( 2 ) requires that there shall be paid to the credit of the said fund the proceeds of the cess recovered under section 4 for each mining area during the quarter after deducting expenses , if any , for collection and recovery . Section 5 ( 3 ) contemplates that to the credit of the said fund shall be placed all collections of cess under section 5 ( 2 ) as well as amounts from State Government and the local authorities and public subscriptions specifically given for any of the purposes of the fund . Section 5 ( 4 ) deals with the topic of the appli cation of the said fund . The fund has to be utilised to meet expenditure incurred in connection with such measures which in the opinion of the State Government are necessary or expedient for providing amenities like communications , water supply and electricity , for the better development of the mining areas , and to meet the welfare of the labour and other persons residing or working in the mining areas . Section 5 ( 5 ) lays down that without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions the fund may be utilised to defray any of the purposes specified in cls . ( a ) to ( e ) . Under section 5 ( 6 ) the State Government is given the power to decide whether any particular expenditure is or is not debitable to the fund and their decision is made final ; and section 5 ( 7 ) imposes on the State Government an obligation to publish annually in the gazette a report of the activities financed from the fund together with an estimate of receipts and expenditure of the fund and a statement of account . Section 6 prescribes the mode of constituting an advisory committee . It has to consist of such number of members and chosen in such manner as may be prescribed , provided however that each committee shall include representatives of mine owners and workmen employed in mining industry . The names of the members of the committee are required to be published in the gazette . Section 7 deals with the appointment and functions of the statutory authorities to carry out the purpose of the Act , while section 8 confers on the State Government power to 552 make rules . Section 9 prescribes penalties and provides for prosecutions ; and section 10 gives protection to the specified authorities or officers in respect of anything done or intended to be done by them in good faith in pursuance of the Act or any rules or order made thereunder . Section 11 , which is the last section confers on the State Government the power to do anything which may appear to them to be necessary for 'the purpose of removing difficulties in giving effect to the provisions of the Act . The scheme of the Act thus clearly shows that it has been passed for the purpose of the development of mining areas in the State . The basis for the operation of the Act is the constitution of a mining area , and it is in regard to mining areas thus constituted that the provisions of the Act come into play . It is not difficult to appreciate the intention of the State Legislature evidenced by this Act . Orissa is an underdeveloped State in the Union of India though it has a lot of mineral wealth of great potential value . Un fortunately its mineral wealth is located generally in areas sparsely populated with bad communications . Inevitably the exploitation of the minerals is handicapped by lack of communications , and the difficulty experienced in keeping the labour force sufficiently healthy and in congenial surroundings . The mineral development of the State , therefore , requires that provision should be made for improving the communications by constructing good roads and by providing means of transport such as tramways ; supply of water and electricity would also help . It would also be necessary to provide for amenities of sanitation and