is not open to the said area or to the said class of persons to plead that they do not want the service and therefore they should be exempted from the payment of the cess . Though there is an element of quid pro quo between the tax payer and the public authority there is no option to the tax payer in the matter of receiving the service determined by public authority . In regard to fees there is , and must always be , co relation between the fee collected and the service intended to be rendered . Cases may arise where under the guise of levying a fee Legislature may attempt to impose a tax ; and in the case of such a colourable exercise of legislative power courts would have to scrutinise the scheme of the levy very carefully and determine whether in fact there is a co relation between the service and the levy , or whether the levy is either not co related with service or is levied to such an 546 excessive extent as to be a presence of a fee and not a fee in reality . In other words , whether or not a particular cess levied by a statute amounts to a fee or tax would always be a question of fact to be determined in the circumstances of each case . The distinction between a tax and a fee is , however , important , and it is recognised by the Constitution . Several Entries in the Three Lists empower the appropriate Legislatures to levy taxes ; but apart from the power to levy taxes thus conferred each List specifically refers to the power to levy fees in respect of any of the matters covered in the said List excluding of course the fees taken in any Court . The question about the distinction between a tax and a fee has been considered by this Court in three decisions in 1954 . In The Commissioner , Hindu Religious Endowments , Madras vs Sri Lakshmindra Thirtha Swamiar of Sri Shirur Mutt ( 1 ) the vires of the Madras Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act , 1951 ( Madras Act XIX of 195 1 ) , came to be examined . Amongst the sections challenged was section 76 ( 1 ) . Under this section every religious institution had to pay to the Government annual contribution not exceeding 5 % of its income for the services rendered to it by the said Government ; and the argument was that the contribution thus exacted was not a fee but a tax and as such outside the competence of the State Legislature . In dealing with this argument Mukherjee , J. , as he then was , cited the definition of tax given by Latham , C.J. , in the case of Matthews ( 2 ) , and has elaborately considered the distinction between a tax and a fee . The learned judge examined the scheme of the Act and observed that `` the material fact which negatives the theory of fees in the present case is that the money raised by the levy of the contribution is not earmarked or specified for defraying the expense that the Government has to incur in performing the services . All the collections go to the consolidated fund of the State and all the expenses have to be met not out of those collections but out of the general revenues by a proper method of appropriation as is done in the ( 1 ) ; ( 2 ) ; 547 case of other Government expenses '' . The learned judge no doubt added that the said circumstance was not conclusive and pointed out that in fact there was a total absence of any co relation between the expenses incurred by the Government and the amount raised by contribution . That is why section 76 ( 1 ) was struck down as ultra vires . The same point arose before this Court in respect of the Orissa Hindu Religious Endowments Act , 1939 , as amended by amending Act 11 of 1952 in Mahant Sri Jagannath Ramanuj Das vs The , State of Orissa ( 1 ) . Mukherjea , J. , who again spoke for the Court , upheld the validity of section 49 which imposed the liability to pay the specified contribution on every Mutt or temple having an annual income exceeding Rs . 250 for services rendered by the State Government . The scheme of the impugned Act was examined and it was noticed that the collections made under it are not merged in the general public revenue and are not appropriated in the manner laid down for appropriation of expenses for other public purposes . They go to constitute a fund which is contemplated by section 50 of the Act , and this fund to which the Provincial Government contributes both by way of loan and grant is specifically set apart for the rendering of services involved in carrying out the provisions of the Act . The same view was taken by this Court in regard to section 58 of the Bombay Public Trust Act , 1950 ( Act XXIX of 1950 ) which imposed a similar contribution for a similar purpose in Ratilal Panachand Gandhi vs The State of Bombay ( 2 ) . It would thus be seen that the tests which have to be applied in determining the character of any impugned levy have been laid down by this Court in these three decisions ; and it is in the light of these tests that we have to consider the merits of the rival contentions raised before us in the present petition . On behalf of the petitioners Mr. Amin has relied on three other decisions which may be briefly considered . In P. P. Kutti Keya vs The State of Madras ( 3 ) , the Madras High Court