education to the labour force in order to attract workmen to the area . Before the Act was passed it appears that the mine owners tried to put up small length roads and tramways for their own individual purpose , but that obviously could not be as effective as roads constructed by the State and tramway service provided by it . It is on a consideration of these factors that the State Legislature decided to take an active part in unsystematic development of its mineral areas which would help the mine owners in moving their 553 minerals quickly through the shortest route and would attract labour to assist the excavation of the minerals . Thus there can be no doubt that the primary and the principal object of the Act is to develop ' the mineral areas in the State and to assist more efficient and extended exploitation of its mineral wealth . The constitution of the advisory committee as prescribed by section 4 emphasises the fact that the policy of the Act would be to carry out with the assistance of the mine owners and their workmen . Thus after a mining area is notified an advisory committee is constituted in respect of it , and the task of carrying out the objects of the Act is left to the care of the said advisory committee subject to the provisions of the Act . Even before an area is notified the mine owners are allowed an opportunity to put forward their objections . These features of the Act are also relevant in determining the question as to whether the Act is intended to render service to the specified area and to the class of persons who are subjected to the levy of the cess . Section 5 shows that the cess levied does not become a part of the consolidated fund and is not subject to an appropriation in that behalf ; it goes into the special fund earmarked for carrying out the purpose of the Act , and thus its existence establishes a correlation between the cess and the purpose for which it is levied . It was probably felt that some additions should be made to the special fund , and so section 5 ( 3 ) contemplates that grants from the State Government and local authorities and public subscriptions may be collected for enriching the said fund . Every year a report of the activities financed by the fund has to be published together with an estimate of receipt and expenditure and a statement of accounts . It would thus be clear that the administration of the fund would be subject to public scrutiny and persons who are called upon to pay the levy would have an opportunity to see whether the cess collected from them has been properly utilised for the purposes for which it is intended to be used . It is not alleged by the petitioners 554 that the levy imposed is unduly or unreasonably excessive so as to make the imposition a colourable exercise of legislative power . Indeed the fact that the accounts have to be published from year to year affords an indication to the contrary . Thus the scheme of the Act shows that the cess is levied against the class of persons owning mines in the notified area and it is levied to enable the State Government to render specific services to the said class by developing the notified mineral area . There is an element of quid pro quo in the scheme , the cess collected is constituted into a specific fund and it has not become a part of the consolidated fund , its application is regulated by a statute and is confined to its purposes , and there is a definite co relation between the impost and the purpose of the Act which is to render service to the notified area . These features of the Act impress upon the levy the character of a fee as distinct from a tax . It is , however , urged that the cess levied by section 4 ( 2 ) is in substance and reality a duty of excise . As we have already noticed section 4 ( 2 ) provides that the rate of such levy shall not exceed 5 per centum of the valuation of the minerals at the pit 's mouth ; in other words it is the value of the minerals produced which is the basis for calculating the cess payable by mine owners , and that precisely is the nature in which duty of excise is levied under Entry 84 in List I . The said Entry empowers Parliament to impose duties of excise , inter alia , on goods manufactured or produced in India . When minerals are produced from mines and a duty of excise is intended to be imposed on them it would be normally imposed at the pit 's mouth , and that is precisely what the impugned Act purports to do . It is also contended that the rate prescribed by section 4 ( 2 ) indicates that it operates not as a mere fee but as a duty of excise . This argument must be carefully examined before the character of the cess is finally determined . It is not disputed that under Entry 23 in List II read with Entry 66 in the said List the State Legislature can levy a fee in respect of mines and mineral development . Entry 23 reads thus : `` Regu lation of Mines and mineral development subject to 555 the provisions of List I with respect to regulation and development under the control of the Union '' . We will deal with the condition imposed by the latter part of this Entry later . For the present it is enough to state that regulation of mines and mineral development is within the competence of the State Legislature .