not a fee but is in reality and in substance a levy in the nature of a duty of excise on the coal produced at the first petitioner 's Rampur colliery , and as such is beyond the legislative competence of the Orissa Legislature . Alternatively it is urged that even if the levy imposed by the impugned Act is a fee relatable to Entries 23 and 66 in List II of the Seventh Schedule , it would nevertheless be ultra vires having regard to the provisions of Entry 54 in List I read with Central Act LIII of 1948 . The petitioners further allege that even if the said levy is held to be a fee it would be similarly ultra vires having regard to Entry 52 in List I read with Central Act LXV of 1951 . According to the petitioners the impugned Act is really relatable to Entry 24 in List III , and since it is repugnant with Central Act XXXII of 1947 relatable to the same Entry and covering the same field the impugned Act is invalid to the extent of the said repugnancy under article 254 . On these allegations the petitioners have applied for a writ of mandamus or a writ in the nature of the said writ or any other writ , order or direction prohibiting the respondents from enforcing any of the provisions of the impugned Act against the first petitioner ; a similar writ or order is claimed against respondent 3 in respect of the letters addressed by him to the 1st petitioner on March 3 , 1959 and June 6 , 1959 . This petition is resisted by respondent 1 on several grounds . It is urged on its behalf that the levy 544 imposed by the impugned Act is a fee relatable to Entries 23 and 66 in List II and its validity is not affected either by Entry 54 read with Act LIII of 1948 or by 'Entry 52 read with Act LXV of 1951 . In the alternative it is contended that if the said levy is held to be a tax and not a fee , it would be a tax relatable to Entry 50 in List II , and as such the legislative competence of the State Legislature to impose the same can not be successfully challenged . Respondent 1 disputes the petitioner 's contention that the impugned Act is relatable to Entry 24 in List III ; and so , according to it , no question of repugnancy with the Central Act XXXII of 1947 arises . After this appeal was fully argued before us Mr. Amin suggested and Mr. Sastri did not object that we should hear the learned Attorney General on the question as to whether even if the levy imposed by the impugned Act is a fee relatable to Entries 23 and 66 in List II of the Seventh Schedule , it would nevertheless be ultra vires having regard to the provisions of Entry 54 in List I read with Central Act LIII of 1948 . Accordingly we directed that a notice on this point should be served on the learned Attorney General and the case should be set down for hearing on that point again . For the learned Attorney General the learned Additional Solicitor General appeared before us in response to this notice and we have had the benefit of hearing his arguments on the point in question . The first question which falls for consideration is whether the levy imposed by the impugned Act amounts to a fee relatable to Entry 23 read with Entry 66 in List II . Before we deal with this question it is necessary to consider the difference between the concept of tax and that of a fee . The neat and terse definition of tax which has been given by Latham , C. J. , in Matthews vs Chicory Marketing Board ( 1 ) is often cited as a classic on this subject . `` A tax '' , said Latham , C. J. , `` is a compulsory exaction of money by public authority for public purposes enforceable by law , and is not payment for services rendered '' . In bringing out the essential features of a tax this defini ( 1 ) ; , 276 . 545 tion also assists in distinguishing a tax from a fee . It is true that between a tax and a fee there is no generic difference . Both are compulsory exactions of money . by public authorities ; but whereas a tax is imposed for public purposes and is not , and need not , be supported by any consideration of service rendered in return , a fee is levied essentially for services rendered and as such there is an element of quid pro quo between the person who pays the fee and the public authority which imposes it . If specific services are rendered to a specific area or to a specific class of persons or trade or business in any local area , and as a condition precedent for the said services or in return for them cess is levied against the said area or the said class of persons or trade or business the cess is distinguishable from a tax and is described as a fee . Tax recovered by public authority invariably goes into the consolidated fund which ultimately is utilised for all public purposes , whereas a cess levied by way of fee is not intended to be , and does not become , a part of the consolidated fund . It is earmarked and set apart for the purpose of services for which it is levied . There is , however , an element of compulsion in the imposition of both tax and fee . When the Legislature decides to render a specific service to any area or to any class of persons , it