and buildings . In the present case , however , I see no difference between the method of imposing a duty of excise and the method employed in the Act for imposing a cess a matter which will be clear from the cesses imposed under the two Central Acts already referred to ( No . XXXII of 1947 and No . LXV of 1951 ) . It is not as if there could be no method of imposing a fee properly so called in this case except the one employed . Two methods readily suggest themselves . A lump sum annual fee could be levied on each mine even on a graded scale depending on the size of the mine as evidenced by its share capital . Or a similar graded fee could be levied on each mine depending on its size determined by the number of men employed therein . Where therefore the result of quantification is to bring a particular impost entirely within the ambit of a tax it would not be right to say that such an impost is still a fee , because certain services have to be rendered and a fund has been created in which collections of the impost are credited . If this were permissible many taxes not otherwise leviable would be converted into fees by the simple device of creating a special fund and attaching certain services to be rendered from the amount in that fund . That would in my opinion be a colourable exercise of the power of legislation , as explained in K. C. Gajapati Narayan Deo vs The State of Orissa ( 1 ) . Let me illustrate how taxes can be turned into fees on the so called basis of quantification with the help of the device of creating a fund and attaching certain services to be rendered out of monies in the fund . Take the case of income tax under item 82 of List I of the Seventh Schedule , which is exclusively reserved ( 1 ) ; 580 for the Union . Suppose that some State Legislature wants to impose a tax on income other than agricultural income in the garb of fees . All that it has to do is then to create a special fund out of the amounts collected and to attach rendering of certain services to the fund . All that would be necessary would be to define the services to be rendered so widely that the amount required for the purpose would be practically limitless . In that case there would be no difficulty in levying any amount of tax on income , for the amount collected would always be insufficient for the large number of services to be rendered . What has to be done is to find out a number of items in Lists II and III of the Seventh Schedule in respect of which fees can be levied by the State Legislature . These fees can be levied on a total basis for a large number of services under various entries of Lists II and III . A fund can be created , say , for rendering services of various kinds to residents of one district . In order to meet the expenses of tendering such services , suppose , the legislature imposes a tax on every one in the district at 10 per centum of the net total income ( other than agricultural income ) ; the amount so collected is put in a separate fund and ear marked for such special services to be rendered to the residents of that district . Can it be said that such a levy is a fee justified under various entries of Lists II and III , and not a tax on income , on the ground that this is merely a mode of quantification ? As an instance , take , item 6 of List II , `` Public health and sanitation , hospitals and dispensaries '' ; item 9 , `` Relief of the disabled and unemployable '' ; item II , Education ; item 12 , Libraries , museums and similar institutions '' ; item 13 , communications , that is to say , roads , bridges and other means of communications ; item 17 , `` Water , that is to say , water supplies , irrigation and canals , drainage and embankments , water storage and water power '' ; and item ' , 25 , `` Gas and gas works '' ; item 23 of List III , `` Social security and social insurance , employment and unemployment '' ; item 24 , `` Welfare of labour including conditions of work , provident funds , employers ' liability workmen 's compensation , invalidity and old age 581 pensions and maternity benefits '' ; item 25 , `` Vocational and technical training of labour '' ; and item 38 , `` Electricity '' . Assume that a fund is created for rendering , these services to the residents of a district . The State Legislature is entitled to impose fees for rendering these services to the residents of the district ; the costs of these services would obviously be limitless and in order to meet these costs , the State legislature levies a consolidated fee for all these purposes at 10 per centum of the total net income on the residents of the district ( excluding his agricultural income ) as a measure of quantification of the fee . Can it be said in the circumstances that such a levy would not be Income tax , simply because a fund is created to be used in the district where collections are made and these services have to be rendered out of the fund so created to the residents of that district and to no others ? The answer can only be one , viz. , that the nature of the impost is to