Entry 66 provides that fees in respect of any of the matters in the said List can be imposed by the State Legislature subject of course to the exception of fees taken in any Court . The argument is that though the State Legislature is competent to levy a fee in respect of mines and mineral development , if the statute passed by a State Legislature in substance and in effect imposes a duty of excise it is travelling outside its jurisdiction and is trespassing on the legislative powers of Parliament . This argument is based on two considerations . The first relates to the form in which the levy is imposed , and the second relates to the extent of the levy authorised . The extent of the levy authorised would always depend upon the nature of the services intended to be rendered and the financial obligations incurred thereby . If the services intended to be rendered to the notified mineral areas require that a fairly large cess should be collected and co relation can be definitely established between the proposed services and the impost levied , then it would be unreasonable to suggest that because the rate of the levy is high it is not a fee but a duty of excise . In the present case , if the development of the mining areas involves con siderable expenditure which necessitates the levy of the prescribed rate it only means that the services being rendered to the mining areas are very valuable and the rate payer in substance is compensating the State for the services rendered by it to him . It is significant that the petitioners do not seriously suggest that the services intended to be rendered are a cloak and not genuine , or that the taxes levied have no relation to the said services , or that they are unreasonable and excessive . Therefore , in our opinion , the extent of the rate allowed to be imposed by section 4 ( 2 ) can not by itself alter the character of the levy from a 556 fee into that of a duty of excise . If the co relation between the levy and the services was not genuine or real , or if the levy was disproportionately higher than the requirements of the services intended to be rendered it would have been another matter . Then as to the form in which the impost is levied , it is difficult to appreciate how the method adopted by the Legislature in recovering the impost can alter its character . The character of the levy must be determined in the light of the tests to which we have already referred . The method in which the fee is recovered is a matter of convenience , and by itself it can not fix upon the levy the character of the duty of excise . This question has often been considered in the past , and it has always been held that though the method in which an impost is levied may be relevant in determining its character its significance and effect can not be exaggerated . In Balla Ram vs The Province of East Punjab ( 1 ) the Federal Court had to consider the character of the tax levied by section 3 of the Punjab Urban Immoveable Property 'tax Act XVII of 1940 . Section 3 provided as follows : `` There shall be charged , levied and paid an annual to tax on buildings and lands situated in the rating areas shown in the schedule to this Act at such rate not exceeding twenty per centum of the annual value of such buildings and lands as the Provincial Government may by notification in official gazette direct in respect of each such rating area '' . The argument urged before the Federal Court was that the tax imposed by the said section was in reality a tax on income within the meaning of Item 54 in List I of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution Act of 1935 , and as such it was not covered by Item 42 in List II of the said Schedule . This argument was rejected on the ground that the tax levied by the Act was in pith and substance a tax on lands and buildings covered by Item 42 . It would be noticed that the basis of the tax was the annual value of the building which is the basis used in the Indian Income tax Act for determining income from property ; and so , the attack against the section was based on ( 1 ) 557 the ground that it had adopted the same basis for leaving the impost as the Income tax Act and the said basis determined its character whatever may be the appearance in which the impost was purported to be levied . In repelling this argument Fazl Ali , J. observed that the crucial question to be answered was whether merely because the Income tax Act has adopted the annual value as the standard for determining the income it must necessarily follow that if the same standard is employed as a measure for any other tax that tax becomes a tax on income . The learned judge then proceeded to add that if the answer to this question is to be given in the affirmative then certain taxes which can not possibly be described as income tax must be held to be so . In other words , the effect of this decision is that the adoption of the standard used in Income tax Act for getting at the income by any other act for levying the tax authorised by it would not be enough to convert the said . tax into an income tax . During the course of this judgment Fazl Ali , J. also noticed with approval a similar view taken by the Bombay High Court in Sir Byramjee