working out the above provisions including section 8 , which gives power to the State Government to frame rules to carry . into effect the purposes of the Act . The Rules were framed under the Act in January , 1955 . The constitutional competence of the Orissa State Legislature to levy the cess under the Act is attacked on two main grounds . In the first place , it is urged that the cess is in pith and substance a duty of excise under item 84 of List I of the Seventh Schedule and therefore the levy of such a cess is beyond the competence of the Orissa State Legislature . In the second place , it is urged that even if the cess is a fee , in view 570 of the two Acts of the Central Legislature and Parliament , namely , The Mines and Minerals ( Regulation and Development ) Act , No . LIII of 1948 and The Industries ( Development and Regulation ) Act , No . LXV of 1951 , the Orissa Legislature was not competent to pass the Act . The petition has been opposed on behalf of the State of Orissa and the main contentions urged on its behalf are that the cess is a fee properly so called and not a duty of excise and therefore the Orissa State Legislature was competent to levy it and the two Central Acts do not affect that competence . In the alternative it has been urged that even if the cess is a tax the State Legislature was competent to levy it under item 50 of List If of the Seventh Schedule . The first question therefore that falls for consideration is whether the cess in this ' ease is a tax or a fee . Difference between a tax properly so called and a fee properly so called came up for consideration before this Court in three cases in 1954 and was considered at length . In the first of them , namely , The Commissioner , Hindu Religious Endowments , Madras vs Sri Lakshmindra Thirtha Swamiar of Sri Shirur Mutt it was pointed out that `` though levying of fees is only a particular form of the exercise of the taxing power of the State , our Constitution has placed fees under a separate category for purposes of legislation and at the end of each one of the three legislative lists , it has given a power to the particular legislature to legislate on the imposition of fees in respect to every one of the items dealt with in the list itself '' . It was also pointed that `` the essence of a tax is compulsion , that is to say , it is imposed under statutory power without the taxpayer 's consent and the payment is enforced by law . The second characteristic of a tax is that it is an imposition made for public purpose without reference to any special benefit to be conferred on the payer of the tax . This is expressed by saying that the levy of tax is for the purposes of general revenue , which when ( 1 ) ; 571 collected forms part of the public revenues of the State . As the object of a tax is not to confer any special benefit upon any particular individual , there is , as it is said , no element of quid pro quo between the tax payer and the public authority . Another feature of taxation is that as it is a part of the common burden , quantum of imposition upon the tax payer depends generally upon his capacity to pay. '' As to fees , it was pointed out that `` a 'fee ' is generally defined to be a charge for a special service rendered to individuals by some governmental agency . The amount of fee levied is supposed to be based on the expenses incurred by the Government in rendering the service , though in many cases the costs are arbitrarily assessed . Ordinarily , the fees are uniform and no account is taken of the varying abilities of different recipients to pay. '' Finally , it was pointed out that `` the distinction between a tax and a fee lies primarily in the fact that a tax is levied as a part of a common burden , while a fee is a payment for a special benefit or privilege . . . Public interest seems to be at the basis of all impositions , but in a fee it is some special benefit which the individual receives. '' The consequence of these principles was that `` if , as we hold , a fee is regarded as a sort of return or consideration for services rendered , it is absolutely necessary that the levy of fees should , on the face of the legislative provision be co related to the expenses incurred by Government in rendering the services . . . If the money thus paid is set apart and appropriated specifically for the performance of such work and is not merged in the public revenues for the benefit of the general public , it could be counted as fees and not a tax . '' Having laid down these principles , that case then considered the vires of section 76 of the Madras Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act , No . XIX of 1951 , and it was pointed out that the material fact which negatived the theory of fees in that case was that the money raised by levy of the contribution was not ear marked or specified for defraying the expenses 572 that the Government had to incur in performing the services . All the collections went to the consolidated fund of the State and all the expenses had to be met not out of those collections but out of the general revenues