We have already noticed that in pith and substance the impugned Act is concerned with the development of the mining areas notified under it . The Central Act , on the other hand , deals more directly with the control of all industries including of course the industry of coal . Chapter II of this Act provides for the constitution of the Central Advisory Council and Development Councils , chapter III deals with the regulation of scheduled industries , chapter IIIA provides for the direct management or control of industrial undertakings by Central Government in certain cases , and chapter IIIB is concerned with the topic of control of supply , distribution , price , etc , of certain articles . The last chapter deals with miscellaneous incidental matters . The functions of the Development Councils constituted under this Act prescribed by section 6 ( 4 ) bring out the real purpose and object of the Act . It is to increase the efficiency or productivity in the scheduled industry or group of scheduled industries , to improve or develop the service that such industry or group of industries renders or could render to the community , or to enable such industry or group of industries to render such service more economically . Section 9 authorises the imposition of cess on scheduled industries in certain cases . Section 9 ( 4 ) provides that the Central Government may hand over the proceeds of the cess to the Development Council there specified and that the Development Council shall utilise the said proceeds to achieve the objects mentioned in cls . ( a ) to ( d ) . These 568 objects include the promotion of scientific and industrial research , of improvements in design and quality , and the provision for the training of technicians and labour in such industry or group of industries . It would thus be seen that the object of the Act is to regulate the scheduled industries with a view to improvement and development of the service that they may render to the society , and thus assist the solution of the larger problem of national economy . It is difficult to hold that the field covered by the declaration made by section 2 of this Act , considered in the light of its several provisions , is the same as the field covered by the impugned Act . That being so , it can not be said that as a result of Entry 52 read with Act LXV of 1951 the vires of the impugned Act can be successfully challenged . Our conclusion , therefore , is that the impugned Act is relatable to Entries 23 and 66 in List II of the Seventh Schedule , and its validity is not impaired or affected by Entries 52 and 54 in List I read with Act LXV of 1951 and Act LIII of 1948 respectively . In view of this conclusion it is unnecessary to consider whether the impugned Act can be justified under Entry 50 in List II , or whether it is relatable to Entry 24 in List III and as such suffexs from the vice of repugnancy with the Central Act XXXII of 1947 . The result is the petition fails and is dismissed with costs . WANCHOO , J. I have read the judgment just delivered by my learned brother Gajendragadkar J. and regret that I have not been able to persuade myself that the cess levied in this case on all extracted minerals from any mine in any mining area at a rate not exceeding five per centum of the value of the minerals at the pit 's mouth by the Orissa State Legislature under section 4 of the Orissa Mining Areas Development Fund Act , No . XXVII of 1952 , ( hereinafter called the Act ) is a fee properly so called and not a duty of ex cise . The facts are all set out in the judgment just delivered and I need not repeat them . The scheme of the Act , as appears from section 3 thereof is to give power to the State Government , whenever it 569 thinks it necessary and expedient to provide amenities , like communications , water supply and electricity for the better development of any area in the State where , in any mine is situated or to provide for the welfare of residents or workers in any such area within . which persons employed in a mine or a group of mines reside or work , to constitute such an area to be a mining area for the purposes of the Act , to define the limits of the area , to include within such area any local area contiguous to the same and defined in the notification and to exclude from such area any local area comprised therein and defined in the notification . A notification under section 3 is made , after hearing objections from owners or lessees of mines . After such an area is con stituted under section 3 , a cess is imposed under section 4 on all extracted minerals from any mine in any such area at the rate not exceeding five per centum of the value of the minerals at the pit 's mouth . The cess so collected is credited to a fund called the Orissa Mining Area Development Fund created under section 5 of the Act , besides other amounts with which we are not concerned in this case . The Fund is to be applied to meet expenditure incurred in connection with such measures , which in the opinion of the State Government , are necessary or expedient for providing amenities like communications , water supply and electricity , for the better development of mining areas and to meet the welfare of labour and other persons residing or working in the mining areas . Then come other provisions for