be seen in its pith and substance ; and if in pith and substance it is income tax within item 82 of List I of the Seventh Schedule it will still remain income tax in spite of the creation of a fund and the attaching of certain services to the monies in that fund to be rendered in a particular area . Such an impost can never be justified as a consolidated fee on the ground that it is merely a method of quantification . Compare what has been done in this case . Sec . 3 of the Act which refers to the services to be rendered mentions communications , that is , , roads , bridges and other means of communication ( barring those given in List I ) , water supply and electricity , for the better development of the area . These three items themselves would mean expenditure of such large amounts that anything could be charged as a fee to meet the costs , particularly in an undeveloped State like Orissa . Further , the section goes on to mention provision for the welfare of residents or workers in any such area , which would include such things as social security and social insurance , provident funds , employer 's liability , workmen 's compensation , invalidity and old age pensions and maternity benefits and may be even employment and unemployment . Again large funds would 74 582 be required for these purposes . Therefore , the services enumerated in section 3 being so large and requiring such large sums , any amount can be levied as a fee and in the name of quantification any tax , even though it may be in List I , can be imposed ; and that is exactly what has been done , namely , what is really a duty of excise has been imposed as a fee for these purposes which fall under items 13 and 17 of List II and 23 , 24 and 38 of List III . There can be no doubt in the circumstances that the levy of a cess as a fee in this case is a colourable piece of legislation . I do not say that the Orissa State Legislature did this deliberately . The motive of the legislature in such cases is irrelevant and it is the effect of the legislation that has to be seen . Looking at that , the cess in this case is in pith and substance nothing other than a duty of excise under item 84 of List I and therefore the State legislature was incompetent to levy it as a fee . The next contention on behalf of the State of Orissa is that if the cess is not justified as a fee , it is a tax under item 50 of List II of the Seventh Schedule . Item 50 provides for taxes on mineral rights subject to any limitations imposed by Parliament by law relating to mineral development . This raises a question as to what are taxes on mineral rights . Obviously , taxes on mineral rights must be different from taxes on goods produced in the nature of duties of excise . If taxes on mineral rights also include taxes on minerals produced , there would be no difference between taxes on mineral rights and duties of excise under item 84 of List I . A comparison of Lists I and II of the Seventh Schedule shows that the same tax is not put in both the Lists . Therefore , taxes on mineral rights must be different from duties of excise which are taxes on minerals produced . The difference can be understood if one sees that before minerals are extracted and become liable to duties of excise somebody has got to work the mines . The usual method of working them is for the owner of the mine to grant mining leases to those who have got the capital to work the mines . There should 583 therefore be no difficulty in holding that taxes on mineral rights are taxes on the right to extract minerals and not taxes on the minerals actually extracted . Thus tax on mineral rights would be confined , for example , to taxes on leases of mineral rights and on premium or royalty for that . Taxes on such premium and royalty would be taxes on mineral rights while taxes on the minerals actually extracted would be duties of excise . It is said that , there may be cases where the owner himself extracts minerals and does not give any right of extraction to somebody else and that in such cases in the absence of mining leases or sub leases there would be no way of levying tax on mineral right , , . It is enough to say that these cases also , rare though they are , present no difficulty . Take the case of taxes on annual value of buildings . Where there is a lease of the building , the annual value is determined by the lease money ; but there are many cases where owners themselves live in buildings . In such cases also taxes on buildings are levied on the annual value worked out according to certain rules . There would be no difficulty where an owner himself works the mine to value the mineral rights on the same principles on which leases of mineral rights are made and then to tax the royalty which , for example , the owner might have got if instead of working the mine himself he had leased it out to somebody else . There can be no doubt therefore that taxes on mineral rights are taxes of this nature and not taxes on minerals actually produced . Therefore the present case is not a tax on mineral rights ; it is a tax on the minerals actually produced