by a proper method of appropriation as was done in the case of other government expenses . That in itself might not be conclusive , but in , that case there was total absence of any co relation between the expenses incurred by the Government and the amount raised by contribution under the provision of section 76 and in those circumstances the theory of return or counter payment or quid pro quo could not have any possible application to that case . Consequently , the contribution levied under section 76 was held to be a tax and not a fee . In the second case of Mahant Sri Jagannath Ramanuj Das vs The State of Orissa ( 1 ) , a similar imposition by the Orissa Legislature came up for consideration . After referring to the earlier case , it was pointed out that `` two elements are thus . essential in order that a payment may be regarded as a fee . In the first place , it must be levied in consideration of certain services which the individuals accepted either willingly or unwillingly . But this by itself is not enough to make the imposition a fee , if the payments demanded for rendering of such services are not set apart or specifically appropriated for that purpose but are merged in the general revenue of the State to be spent for general public purposes . '' The Orissa imposition was held to be a fee because the collections made were not merged in the general public revenue and were meant for the purpose of meeting the expenses of the Commissioner and his office which was the machinery set up for due administration of the affairs of the religious institution . They went to constitute a fund which was contemplated by section 50 of the Orissa Act and this fund was specifically set apart for rendering services involved in carrying out the provisions of the Act . The third case , namely , Ratilal Panachand Gandhi ( 1 ) ; 573 vs The State of Bombay ( 1 ) came from Bombay . 58 of the Bombay Act , No . XXIX of 1950 , provided for an imposition in proportion to the gross annual income of the trust . This imposition was levied for the purpose of due administration of the trust property and for defraying the expenses incurred in connection with the same . After referring to the two earlier cases , the Court went on to say that `` taxis a common burden and the only return which the taxpayer gets is participation in the common benefits of the State . Fees , on the other hand , are payments primarily in the public interest , but for some special service rendered or some special work done for the benefit of those from whom the payments are demanded . Thus in fees there is always an element of quid pro quo which is absent in a tax . . But in order that the collections made by the Government can rank as fees , there must be co relation between the levy imposed and the expenses incurred by the State for the purpose of rendering such services. '' It was then pointed out that the contributions , which were collected under section 58 , were to be credited in the Public Trusts Administration Fund as constituted under section 57 . This fund was to be applied exclusively for the payment of charges for expenses incidental to the regulation of public trusts and for carrying into effect the provisions of the Act . The imposition therefore was in that case held to be a fee . These decisions clearly bring out the difference between a tax and a fee and generally speaking there is always an element of quid pro quo in a fee and the amount raised through a fee is co related to the expenses necessary for rendering the services which are the basis of quid pro quo . Further , the amount collected as a fee does not go to augment the general revenues of the State and many a time a special fund is created in which fees are credited though this is not absolutely necessary . But as I read these deci sions , they can not be held to lay down that 'What is in pith and substance a tax can become a fee merely ( 1 ) [ 1954 ] S.C.R . 1055 . 574 because a fund is created in which collections are credited and some services may be rendered to the persons from whom collections are made . If that were so , it will be possible to convert many taxes not otherwise leviable into fees by the device of creating a special fund and attaching some service to be rendered through that fund to the persons from whom collections are made . I am therefore of opinion that one must first look at the pith and substance of the levy , and if in its pith and substance it is not essentially different from a tax it can not be converted into a fee by creating a special fund in which the collections are credited and attaching some services to be rendered through that fund . Let me then look at the pith and substance of the cess , which has been imposed in this case . The cess consists of a levy not exceeding five per centum of the value of the minerals at the pit 's mouth on all extracted minerals . Prima facie such a levy is nothing more nor less than a duty of excise . Item 84 of List I gives power to levy duties of excise exclusively to the Union and is in these terms : `` Duties of excise on tobacco and other goods manufactured or produced in India except ( a ) alcoholic liquors for human consumption ; (