87 of 1959 . Petition under article 32 of the Constitution of India for enforcement of Fundamental Rights . M. P. Amin , Dara P. Mehta , P. M. Amin ; section N. Andley , J . B. Dadachanji , Rameshwar Nath and P. L. Vohra for the petitioners . A. V. Viswanatha Sastri , R. Ganapathy Iyer , P. Kesava Pillai and T. M. Sen , for the respondents . H. N. Sanyal , Additional Solicitor General of India , B. Sen and R. H. Dhebar , for the Intervener . 541 1960 . November , 21 . The , Judgment of P. B. Gajendragadkar , A. K. Sarkar , K. Subba Rao and J. R. Mudholkar , JJ. , was delivered by P. B. Gajendragadkar J. , K. N. Wanchoo , J. , delivered a separate judgment . GAJENDRAGADKAR , J . This is a petition filed under article 32 of the Constitution in which the validity of the Orissa Mining Areas Development Fund Act , ( , 1952 ( XXVII of 1952 ) , is challenged . The first petitioner is a public limited company which has its registered office at Bombay . A large majority of its shareholders are citizens of India ; some of them are themselves companies incorporated under the Indian Companies Act . Petitioners Nos . 2 to 7 are the Directors of Petitioner No . 1 , the second petitioner being the Chairman of its Board of Directors . These petitioners are all citizens of India . At all material times the first petitioner carried on and still carries on the business of producing and selling coal excavated from its collieries at Rampur in the State 'of Orissa . Two leases have been executed in its favour ; the first was executed on October 17 , 1941 , by the Governor of Orissa whereby all that piece or parcel of land in the registration district of Sambalpur admeasuring about 3341.79 acres has been demised for a period of 30 years commencing from September 1 , 1939 , in consideration of the rent reserved thereby and subject to the covenants and conditions prescribed thereunder ; and the second is a surface lease executed in its favour by Mr. Mohan Brijraj Singh Dee on April 19 , 1951 , in relation to a land admeasuring approximately 211.94 acres for a like period of 30 years commencing from February 4 , 1939 , in consideration of the rent and subject to the terms and conditions prescribed by it . Pursuant to section 5 of the Orissa Estates Abolition Act , 1951 , all the right , title and interest of the Zamindar of Rampur in the lands demised to the first petitioner under the second lease vested in respondents , the State of Orissa . Since then the first petitioner has duly paid the rent reserved by the said lease to the appropriate authorities appointed by respondent 1 , 69 542 and has observed and performed all the conditions and covenants of the said lease . In exercise of its rights under the said two leases the first petitioner entered upon the lands demised and has been carrying on the business of excavating and producing coal at its collieries at Rampur . In December , 1952 , the Legislature of the State of Orissa passed the impugned Act ; and it received the assent of the Governor of Orissa on December 10 , 1952 . It was , however , not reserved for the consideration of the President of India nor has it received his assent . In pursuance of the rule making power conferred on it by the impugned Act respondent 1 has purported to make rules called the Orissa Mining Areas Development Act Rules , 1955 ; these rules have been duly notified in the State Gazette on January 25 , 1955 . Subsequently , the Administrator , respondent 2 , appointed under the impugned Act issued a notification on June 24 , 1958 , whereby the first petitioner 's Rampur colliery has been notified for the purpose of liability for the payment of cess under the impugned Act . The area of this colliery has been determined at 3341.79 acres . In its appeal filed under rule 3 before the Director of Mines the first petitioner objected to the issue of the said notification , inter alia , on the ground that the impugned Act and the rules framed under it were ultra vires and invalid ; no action has , however , been taken on the said appeal presumably because the authority concerned could not enter tain or deal with the objections about the vires of the Act and the rules . Thereafter on March 26 , 1959 , the Assistant Administrative Officer , respondent 3 , called upon the first petitioner to submit monthly returns for the assessment of the cess . The first petitioner then represented that it had filed an appeal setting forth its objections against the notification , and added that until the said appeal was disposed of no returns would be filed by it . In spite of this representation respondent 3 , by his letter of May 6 , 1959 , called upon the 543 first petitioner to submit monthly returns in the prescribed form and issued the warning that failing compliance the first petitioner would be prosecuted under section 9 of the impugned Act . A similiar demand was made and a similar warning issued by respondent 3 by his letter dated June 6 , 1959 . It is under these circumstances that the present petition has been filed . The petitioners contend that the impugned Act and ' the rules made thereunder are ultra vires the powers of the Legislature of the State of Orissa , or in any event they are repugnant to the provisions of an existing law . According to the petition the cess levied under the impugned Act is