which expressly related to the distribution of the right to the Bank of India shares being dividend within the meaning of the definition in section 2 ( 6A ) of the Income Tax Act , in enlarging the scope of the question and in answering it in the light of its ordinary meaning . There is no substance in this contention . `` Dividend '' is defined in section 2 ( 6A ) as inclusive of various items and exclusive of certain others which it is not necessary to set out for the purpose of this appeal . `` Dividend '' in its ordinary meaning is a 588 distributive share of the profits or income of a company given to its shareholders . When the Legislature by section 2 ( 6A ) sought to define the expression `` dividend '' it added to the normal meaning of the expression several other categories of receipts which may not otherwise be included therein . By the definition in section 2 ( 6A ) , `` dividend '' means dividend as normally understood and includes in its connotation several other receipts set out in the definition . The Tribunal had referred the question whether the distribution of the right to apply for the Bank of India shares amounted to distribution of dividend within the meaning of section 2 ( 6A ) and in answering that question , the High Court had to take into account both the normal and the extended meaning of that expression . In the question framed by the Tribunal , there is nothing to indicate that the High Court was called upon to advise on the question whether the receipts by the appellants amounted to dividend only within the extended definition of that expression in section 2 ( 6A ) . It was also urged that in nominating its shareholders to exercise the option to purchase the new issue of the Bank of India , the Mills did not distribute any dividend . The Mills were , it is true , not obliged to accept the offer made by the Bank of India , however advantageous it might have been to the Mills to accept the offer : it was open to the Mills to renounce the offer . The Mills had three options , ( 1 ) to accept the shares , ( 2 ) to decline to accept the shares , or ( 3 ) to surrender them in favour of its nominee . It is undisputed that when the shares were offered by the Bank of India to its shareholders , the right to apply for the shares had a market value of Rs . 100 per share . The face value of the new share was Rs . 50 but the shareholders had to pay a premium of Rs . 50 , thus making a total payment of Rs . 100 for acquiring the new share . The new shares were quoted in the market at more than Rs . 200 : and the difference between the amount payable for acquiring the shares under the right offered by the Bank of India and the market quotation of the shares was indisputably the value of the right . The Mills could not be compelled to obtain 589 this benefit if it did not desire to do so : it could accept the shares or decline to accept those shares or exercise the option of surrendering them in favour of its nominees . This last option could be exercised by nominating the persons who were to take over the shares and that is what the Mills did . The Mills requested the Bank of India to allot the shares to its nominees , and the request for allotment to its nominees amounted to transfer of the right . By its resolution , the Mills in truth transferred a right of the value of Rs . 200 for each share held by its shareholders . This was manifestly not distribution of the capital of the Mills . It was open to the Mills to sell the right to the shares of the Bank of India in the market , and to distribute the proceeds among the shareholders . Such a distribution would undoubtedly have been distribution of dividend . If instead of selling the right in the market and then distributing the proceeds , the Mills directly transferred the right , the benefit in the hands of the shareholders was still dividend . Dividend need not be distributed in money ; it may be distributed by delivery of property or right having monetary value . The resolution , it is true , did not purport to distribute the right amongst the shareholders as dividend . It did not also take the form of a resolution for distribution of dividend ; it took the form of distribution of a right which had a monetary value . But by the form of the resolution sanctioning the distribution , the true character of the resolution could not be altered . We are therefore of the view that the High Court was right in holding that the distribution of the right to apply for and obtain two shares of the Bank of India ( at half their market value ) for each share held by the shareholders of the Mills amounted to distribution of dividend . The appeal fails and is dismissed with costs . Appeal dismissed .