Appeal No . 364 of 1957 . Appeal from the judgment and order dated February 22 , 1956 , of the former Bombay High Court in I.T.R . No . 31/1955 . N. A. Palkhivala and I. N. Shroff , for the Appellants . A. N. Kripal and D. Gupta , for the Respondent . 1960 . November 22 . The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SHAH , J . This is an appeal by seven appellants with leave granted by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay certifying that it involves a question of importance . The appellants held 570 out of a total issue of 800 shares of the Navjivan Mills Ltd. , Kalol , a public limited company hereinafter referred to as the Mills . Between the years 1943 47 , the Mills purchased 5,000 shares of the Bank of India Ltd. At an extraordinary general meeting of the shareholders of the Bank of India held on May 6 , 1948 , a resolution was passed increasing the share capital of the Bank and for that purpose offering new shares to the existing shareholders in the proportion of one new share for every three shares held by the shareholders . The face value of the new shares was to be Rs . 50 , but the shares were issued at a premium of Rs . 50 . The shareholders had to pay Rs . 100 for each new share . The Mills as the holder of 5,000 shares became entitled to receive 1,6662 shares of the Bank of India at the rate of Rs . 100 per share . The Bank of India communicated its resolution by letter dated May 25 , 1948 and enclosed therewith three forms , form A for acceptance , form 586 B for renunciation and 'form C which may compendiously be called a form for allotment to nominees . On receiving the circular letter , the Directors of the Mills passed the following resolution : `` Resolved that the company having a holding of 5,000 ordinary shares in the capital of the Bank of India Ltd. having now received an intimation from the said Bank that this company is entitled to get 1,6662 more ordinary shares on payment of Rs . 50 as capital and Rs . 50 as premium per each share and it is considered proper to invest in the said issue of the said Bank the funds of this company to the extent of 66 shares only and to distribute the right of this company to the remaining 1,600 shares of the said issue amongst the shareholders of this company in the proportion of the shares held by them in this company . IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED that the funds of this company may be invested in the 66 shares out of 1,666 shares offered by 'the Bank of India Ltd. , and the right to the remaining 1,600 shares is hereby distributed among 800 shares of this company in the proportion of right to two shares of the Bank per one ordinary share held in this company . The Managing Agents may take steps to intimate the shareholders to exercise the right if they like to do so. '' Accordingly , the Mills exercised the right to take over only 66 shares out of the shares offered and resolved that the right to the remaining 1,600 shares be distributed amongst its 800 share holders . The seven appellants as holders of 570 shares of the Mills became entitled to 1,140 shares of the Bank of India . The appellants agreed to the allotment of these shares and ultimately transferred them to a private company Jesinghbai Investment Co. ' Ltd . The assessment of the seven appellants and of other shareholders of the Mills was reopened under section 34 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Indian Income Tax Act by the Income Tax Officer on the footing that , the release by the Mills of the shares of the Bank of India amounted to a distribution of `` dividend '' and the value of the right released in favour of the shareholders though taxable 587 under section 12 of the Act , had escaped tax . The order of the Income Tax Officer reassessing the income of the seven appellants was confirmed in appeal by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and by the Appellate Tribunal . At the instance of the appellants , the i following question was submitted by the Tribunal to the High Court at Bombay under section 66 ( 1 ) of the Income Tax Act : `` Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case the distribution of the right to apply for the shares of the Bank of India by Navjivan Mills Ltd. in favour of the assessees amounted to a distribution of `` dividend '' within the meaning of section 2 ( 6A ) of the Indian Income Tax Act. '' The High Court reframed the question as follows : `` Whether on the facts and circumstances of the case , the distribution of the right to apply for the shares of the Bank of India by Navjivan Mills Ltd. , in favour of the assessees amounted to a distribution of `` dividend '' ? '' and answered it in the affirmative . The High Court observed that the definition of `` dividend '' in section 2 ( 6A ) was an inclusive and not an exhaustive definition , and even if the distribution of the right to the shares of the Bank of India could not be regarded as dividend within the extended meaning of that expression in section 2 ( 6A ) , it was still dividend within the ordinary meaning of that expression and was taxable as income in the hands of the appellants . Counsel for the appellants contended that the High Court was not justified , having regard to the form of the question