( b ) must be allowed to be continued free from the bar created by the Presidential Order . In our opinion , this position is wholly untenable . Whether or not the proceedings taken under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) fall within the purview of the Presidential Order , must depend upon the construction of article 359 ( 1 ) and the Order , and in dealing with this point , we must look at the substance of the matter and not its form . Before giving relief to the detenu who alleges that he has been illegally and impropely detained , is the High Court required to consider the validity of the operative provisions of the impugned Act on the ground that they infringe the specified fundamental rights ? If yes , the bar created by article 359 ( 1 ) and the Presidential Order must inevitably step in even though the proceedings in form may have been taken under section 49t ( 1 ) ( b ) of the Code . In our opinion , therefore , once it is shown that the proceedings under 825 s.491 ( 1 ) ( b ) can not make a substantial progress unless the validity of the impugned law is examined on the ground of the contravention of the specified fundamental rights , it must follow that the bar created by the Presidential Order operates against them as much as it operates against proceedings taken under article 226 ( 1 ) or article 32 ( 1 ) . Thus , the true legal position , in substance , is that the clause `` the right to move any court '' used in article 359 ( 1 ) and the Presidential Order takes in all legal actions intended to be filed , or filed , in which the specified rights are sought to be enforced , and it covers all relevant categories of Jurisdictions of competent courts under which the said actions would otherwise normally have been entertained and tried . At this stage , we may conveniently refer to the recent decision of this Court in Sree Mohan Chowdhury vs The Chief Commissioner , Union Territory of Tripura ( 1 ) , wherein this Court rejected the detenu 's petition on the ground that it was barred by the Presidential Order and it refused to entertain the argument that the Ordinance and the Act and the Rules framed thereunder were void for the reason that they contravened articles 14 , 21 & 22 , with the observation that the challenge made by the petitioner in that behalf really amounted to `` arguing in the circle '' . If the Presidential Order precludes a citizen from moving the Court for the enforcement of the specified fundamental rights , it would not be open to the citizen to urge that the Act is void for the reason that it offends against the said fundamental rights . It is in order to prevent the citizen from making such a claim that the Presidential Order has been issued , and so , during the period of its operation , the challenge to the validity of the Act can not be entertained . Incidentally , it may be observed that a petition for a writ of habeas corpus made by Mohan Chowdhury which was rejected by this Court on the ground that it was barred under the Presidential Order would , on the view for which the appellants contend , be competent if it is presented before the appropriate High Court under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the Code ; and that incidentally illustrates how exaggerated importance to the form of the petition would lead to extremely anomalous and irrational consequences . Therefore , our conclusion is that the proceedings ( 1 ) [ 1964 ] 3 S.C.R.412 . 53 2 SC India/64 826 taken on behalf of the appellants before the respective High Courts challenging their detention on the ground that the impugned Act and the Rules arc void because they contravene articles 14 , 21 and 22 , arc incompetent for the reason that the fundamental rights which are alleged to have been contravened are specified in the Presidential Order and all citizens ire precluded from moving any Court for the enforcement of the said specified rights . The next question to consider is the validity of tile Presidential Order itself which was issued on the 3rd November , 1962 . This is how the Order reads : `` G.S.R . 1464 . In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 1 ) of article 359 of the Constitution , the President hereby declares that the right of any person to move any court for the enforcement of the rights conferred by article 21 and article 22 of the Constitution shall remain suspends for the period during which the Proclamation of Emergency issued under clause ( 1 ) of article 352 thereof on , lie 26th October , 1962 is in force , if such person has been delivered of any such rights under the Defence of India Ordanance , 1962 ( 4 of 1.962 ) or any rule or order made thereunder. '' We have already stated that this Order was subsequently modified on the 11th November , 1962 , by the addition of article 14 . The first argument which has been urged against the validity of this Order is that it is inconsistent with the provisions of article 359 ( 1 ) . It is argued that the Order which the President is authorised to issue under this Article must be an Order of general application ; in fact , the Order purports to be confined to persons who have been deprived of any of the specified rights under the Defence of India Ordinance , 1962 , or any Rule or Order made thereunder . In other words , there is no