to ask for a writ in the nature of habeas corpus which could once have been treated as a matter of Common Law has become a statutory right after 1923 , and as we have already seen after section 491 was introduced in the Cr . P. C. , it was not open to any citizen in India to claim the writ of habeas corpus on grounds recognised by Common Law apart from the provisions of section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) itself . It has , however , been suggested by the learned Attorney General that just as the common law right to obtain a writ of habeas corpus became a statutory right in 1923 , a part of the said statutory .tight has now become a part of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution , and so , after the Constitution came into force , whenever a detenu claims to be released from illegal or improper ' detention , his claim can , in some cases , be sustained on the ground that illegal or improper detention affects his fundamental rights guaranteed by articles 19 , or 21 or 23 as the case may be . If that be so , it would not be easy to accede to the argument that the said part of the statutory right recognised by section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) retains its distinctive and independent character even after 821 the Constitution came into force to such an extent that it can not be said to form part of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution . It is true that there are two remedies open to a party whose right of personal freedom has been infringed ; he may move the Court for a writ under article 226 ( 1 ) or article 32 ( 1 ) of the Constitution , or he may take a proceeding under s.491 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the Code . But it seems to us that despite the fact that either of the two remedies can be adopted by a citizen who has been detained improperly or illegally , the right which he claims is the same if the remedy sought for is based on the ground that there has been a breach of his fundamental rights ; and that is a right guaranteed to the citizen by the Constitution , and so , whatever is the form of the remedy adopted by the detenu , the right which he is seeking to enforce is the same . It is no doubt urged that under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) a stranger can apply for the release of a detenu improperly or illegally detained , or the Court itself can act suo motu . This argument is based on the provision that the High Court may , whenever it thinks fit , issue the appropriate direction . The learned Attorney General contended that the clause `` whenever it thinks fit '' postulates that some application or petition has been filed before the Court and on perusing the application or petition it appears to the Court fit to take the appropriate action . In other words , his argument is that the Court can not take suo motu action under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) . He has also urged that a third person may apply , but he must show that he has been duly authorised to act on behalf of the detenu or he must at least purport to act on his behalf . We do not think it necessary to express any opinion on this part of the controversy between the parties . We are prepared to assume that the court can , in a proper case , exercise its power under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) suo motu , but that , in our opinion , does not affect the decision of the question with which we are concerned . If article 359 ( 1 ) and the Presidential Order issued under it govern the proceedings taken under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) , the fact that the court can act suo motu will not make any difference to the legal position for the simple reason that if a party is precluded from claiming his release on the ground set out by him in his petition , the 822 Court can not , purporting to act suo motu , pass any order inconsistent with the provisions of article 359 ( 1 ) and the Presidential Order issued under it . Similarly , if the pro ceedings under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) are hit by article 359 ( 1 ) and the Presidential Order , the arguments based on the provisions of article 372 as well as articles 225 and 375 have no validity . The obvious and the necessary implication of the suspension of the right of the citizen to move any Court for enforcing his specified fundamental right . , is to suspend the Jurisdiction of the Court pro tanto in that behalf . Let us take a concrete case which will clearly bring . out the character of the proceedings taken by the detenues in the present cases . An application is made on behalf of the detenu that he is illegally or improperly detained . The State in its return pleads that the detention is neither illegal nor improper because it has been effected under rule 30 ( 1 ) ( b ) , and in support of this return reliance is placed on the provisions of section 3 ( 2 ) ( 15 ) ( i ) of the Act . On receiving this return , it is urged on behalf of the detenu that the provisions of section 3 ( 2 ) ( 15 ) ( i ) as well as Rule 30