Wright observed in the case of Liver sidge ( 1 ) , `` the safeguard of British liberty is in the good sense of the people and in the system of representative and responsible government which has been evolved . If extra ordinary powers are here given , they are given because the emergency is extraordinary and are limited to the period of the , emergency. '' The other aspect of Mr. Setalvad 's argument was that during Operation the Presidential Order , the executive may abuse . Its powers and the citizens would have no remedy . This argument is essentially political and its impact on the constitutional question with which we are concerned is at best indirect . Even so , it may be permissible to observe that in a democratic State , the effective safeguard against abuse of executive powers whether in peace or in emergency , is ultimately to be found in the existence of enlightened , vigilant and vocal public opinion . The appellants have also relied upon the made by Lord Atkin in the case of Eshuqbavi Elecko vs Officer Administering the Government of Nigeria ( 2 ) . `` In accordance with British jurisprudence , '' said Lord Atkin , `` no member of the executive can interfere with the liberty or property of a British subject except on the condition that he can support the legality of his action before a Court of Justice . And it is the tradition of British Justice that Judges should not shrink from deciding such issues in the face of the executive. '' These noble sentiments so eloquently expressed by Lord Atkin as well as his classic minority speech in the case of Liversidge evoke a spontaneous response in the minds of all of us who have taken the oath to administer law in accordance with our Constitution and to uphold the fundamental rights of citizens guaranteed by the Constitution . This Court is fully conscious of the solemn duty imposed on it by article 32 which constitutes it the Custodian and Guardian of the citizens ' fundamental rights . But we must remember that the democratic faith in the inviolable character of individual liberty and freedom and the majesty of law which sustains it must ultimately be governed by the Constitution itself . The Constitution is the law of laws the paramount ( 1 ) ; ( 2 ) 839 and supreme law of the country . It has itself enshrined the fundamental rights of the citizens in the relevant Articles of Part III and it is no doubt the duty of this Court as the Custodian of those rights to see that they are not contravened contrary to the provisions of the Constitution . But the Constitution itself has made certain emergency provisions in Chapter XVIII with a view to en , Able the na tion to meet grave emergencies like the present , and so , in dealing with the question about the citizen 's right to chal lenge the validity of his detention , we will have to give effect to the plain words of article 359 ( 1 ) and the Presidential Order issued under it . As we have already indicated , the only reasonable construction which can be placed upon article 359 ) ( 1 ) is to hold that the citizen 's right to take any legal proceeding for the enforcement of his fun damental rights which have been specified in the Presi dential Order is suspended during the prescribed period . It is , in our opinion , plain that the right specified in article 35 ) ( 1 ) includes the relevant right , whether it is statutory , Constitutional or Constitutionally guaranteed , and the words `` any court '' refer to all courts of competent jurisdiction and naturally include the Supreme Court and the High Courts . If that be so , it would be singularly inappropriate for this Court to entertain an argument which seeks to circumvent this provision by suggesting that the right of the detenu to challenge the legality of his detention under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) does not fall within the scope of the said Article . The said argument concentrates attention on the mere form of the petition and ignores the substance of the matter altogether . In the context , we think , such a sophisticated approach which leans solely on unrealistic and artificial subtlety is out of place and is illogical , unreasonable and unsound . We must , therefore , hold that the Punjab and the Bombay High Courts were right in coming to the conclusion that the detenues before them were not entitled to contend that the impugned Act and the statutory Rule under which they were deained were void for the reason that they contravened articles 14 , 21 and 22 ( 4 ) , ( 5 ) & ( 7 ) . Before we part with these appeals , we ought to mention one more point . At the commencement of the hearing of these appeals when Mr. Setalvad began to argue about 840 the validity of the impugned provisions of the Act and the Rules , the learned Attorney General raised a preliminary contention that logically , the appellants should satisfy this Court that it was open to them to move the High Courts on the grounds set out by them before the validity of the said grounds is examined . He suggested that , logically , the first point to consider would be whether the detenues can challenge the validity of the impugned Act on the ground that they arc illegally detained . If they succeed in showing that the applications made by them under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) are competent and do not fall within the purview of article 359 ( 1 ) and the Presidential Order , then the stage would