, be struck down as a colourable exercise of legislative power . It is hardly necessary to emphasise that a plea that an Act passed by a legislature competent to pass it is a colourable piece of legislation , can not succeed on such flimsy grounds . Whether or not it was wise that this part of the Act should have been passed , is a matter which is wholly irrelevant in dealing with the plea that the Act is a colourable piece of legislation . In this connection , we may refer to another aspect of the same argument which has been pressed before us . Before doing so , however , let us briefly indicate the effect of the relevant Articles . Article 14 guarantees equality before law . Article 21 provides , inter alia , that no person shall be deprived of his personal liberty , except according to procedure established by law , and article 22 ( 4 ) , ( 5 ) ( 6 ) & ( 7 ) lay down Constitutional safeguards for the protection of the citizen whose personal liberty may be affected by an order of detention passed against him . Article 22 ( 4 ) requires that an Advisory Board should be constituted and that cases of detenues should be referred to the Advisory Board for its opinion as provided therein . Article 22 ( 5 ) 834 imposes an obligation on the detaining authority to commu nicate to the detenu grounds on which the order of detention has been passed against him with a view to afford him the earliest opportunity of making a representation against the order . Article 22 ( 6 ) provides that in giving notice to the detenu under article 22 ( 5 ) , facts need not be disclosed which the detaining authority considers to be against public interest to disclose , and article 22 ( 7 ) prescribes certain conditions which have to be satisfied by any law which the Parliament may pass empowering the detention of citizens . It is thus clear that the Constitution empowers the Parliament to make a law providing for the detention of citizens , but this power has to be exercised subject to the mandatory conditions specified in article 22 ( 4 ) , ( 5 ) & ( 7 ) . It is common ground that the of 1950 complies with these requirements inasmuch as it has enacted sections 7 to 13 in that behalf . It is also clear that these Constitutional safeguards have not been provided for by the impugned Act . The argument is that even if the Parliament thought that during the period of emergency , citizens reasonably suspected to be engaged in prejudicial activities should be detained without affording them the benefit of the Con stitutional safeguards guaranteed by article 22 ( 4 ) , ( 5 ) & ( 7 ) , the Parliament need not have enacted the Act and might well have left the executive to take action under the of 1950 , and since Parliament has chosen to pass the Act under challenge and has disregarded the Constitutional provisions of Articles 14 and 22 , the exercise of legislative power by Parliament must , in the context , be held to be a colourable exercise of legislative power . This argument seems to assume that if the Parliament had expected the executive to detain citizens under the of 1950 without giving them the benefit of the Constitutional safeguards prescribed by article 22 , their cases could have been covered if a Presidential Order had been issued under article 359 ( 1 ) in respect of such detentions . The question is : is this assumption well founded ? Assuming that the Presidential Order had suspended the citizens ' right to move any court for enforcing their fundamental rights under articles 14 , 21 and 22 and had made 835 the said Order applicable to persons detained under the of 1950 , could that Order have effectively prevented the detenues from contending that their detention was illegal and void ? In such a case , if the detenu was detained under the of 1950 and he challenged the validity of his detention on the ground that the relevant provisions of the said Act had not been complied with , would his challenge be covered by article 359 ( 1 ) and the Presidential Order issued under it ? In other words , can it be said that in making the said challenge , he was enforcing his fundamental rights specified in the Presidential Order ? If it is held that he was challenging the validity of his detention because the mandatory provisions of the Act had not been complied with , his challenge may be outside article 359 ( 1 ) and the Presidential Order . If , on the other hand , it is held that , in substance , the challenge is to enforce his aforesaid fundamental rights , though he makes the challenge by reference to the relevant statutory provisions of the Act themselves that would have brought Ills challenge within the prohibition of the Presidential Order . Normally , as we have already held , a challenge against the validity of the detention on the ground that the statutory provisions of the Act under which the detention is ordered have not been complied with , would fall outside article 359 ( 1 ) and the Presidential Order , but the complication in the hypothetical case under discussion arises because unlike other provisions of the Act , the mandatory provisions in question essentially represent the fundamental rights guaranteed by article 22 and it is open to argument that the challenge in question sub stantially seeks to enforce the said fundamental rights . In the context of the alternative argument with which we arc dealing at this stage , it is unnecessary for us to decide whether