any relief asked for in any proceedings in any court , whether initiated at the instance of the party affected or not , 854 or whether started suo motu by the court , if it involves a decision on the question whether a particular law was void for the reason that it infringed the fundamental rights mentioned in the President 's order . In support of this contention he presses on us to hold that in days of stress and strain i.e. , when there is a threat of war and conse quently an emergency is declared , a court has to adopt the principle of `` strained construction '' which will achieve the object behind article 359 of the Constitution and the order issued by the President . I shall briefly examine the decisions cited by him to ascertain whether any such novel doctrine of construction of statutes exists . Rex vs Halliday ( 1 ) is a decision of the House of Lords made in 1917 i.e. , during the First World War . Regulation 14B of the Defence of the Realm ( Consolidation ) Regulation , 1914 , empowered the Secretary of State to order the internment of any person of hostile origin or associations , where on the recommendation of a competent naval or military authority it appeared to him expedient for securing the public safety or the defence of the realm . This regulation was authorized by the Defence of the Realm Consolidation Act , 1914 , section 1 , sub section 1 . The House of Lords , by a majority , held that the Act conferred upon , the King In Council power , during the continuance of the war , to issue regulations for securing the public safety and the defence of the realm and , there fore , the regulation was valid . It was urged there that no such restraint of personal liberty should be imposed except as a result of judicial enquiry . It was also contended that if the Legislature intended to interfere with personal liberty it should have provided for suspending the right of the subject as to the writ of heabeas corpus . The argument was negatived . Lord Atkin observed `` The subject retains every right which those statutes confer upon him to have tested and determined in a Court of law , by means of a writ of Habeas Corpus , , addressed to the person in whose custody he may be , the legality of the order or warrant by virtue of which he is given into or kept in that custody . If the Legislature chooses to enact that he can be deprived of his liberty and incarcerated or ( 1 ) ; , 272 . 855 interned for certain things for which he could not have been heretofore incarcerated or interned , that enactment and the orders made under it , if intra vires , do not infringe upon the Habeas Corpus Acts in any way whatever , to take away any rights conferred by Magna Charta , for the simple reason that the Act and these Orders become part of the law of the land. '' This decision does not lay down any new rule of cons truction . Parliament is supreme in England . It its wisdom it did not take away the habeas corpus , but empowered the executive to issue regulations for public safety and defence of the nation . The regulation made did not exceed the power conferred by the Parliament . The House of Lords held that the detention was in accordance with law . Nor does the controversial decision in Liverside vs Sir John Anderson ( 1 ) , which was the subject of servere criticism in later years , lay down any such new rule of construction . There , the Secretary of State , acting in good faith under reg . 18B of the Defence ( General ) Regulations , 1939 , made an order in which he recited that he bad reasonable cause to believe a person to be of hostile associations and that by reason thereof it was necessary to exercise control over him and directed that that person be detained . The validity of the detention turned upon the construction of the express provisions of reg . 18B of the said Regulations . In that regulation the expression used was `` reasonable cause to believe any person to be of hostile origin '' . The House of Lords , by a majority , held that the expression meant that `` the Secretary of State thinks fit to be reasonable '' . There was a powerful dissent by Lord Atkin on the question of construction . With the correctness of the construction put upon by the majority on the said provision we are not concerned ; but none of the learned law Lords laid down in their speeches any new rule of construction peculiar to war conditions . Viscount Maugham observed : `` My Lords , I think we should approach the construction of reg . 18B of the Defence ( General ) Regulations without any general presumption as to its ( 1 ) ; , 219 , 251 . 856 meaning except the universal presumption , applicable to Orders in Council and other like instruments , that , if there is a reasonable doubt as to the meaning of the words used , we should prefer a construction which will carry into effect the plain intention of those responsible for the Order in Council rather than one which will defeat that intention . '' Lord Atkin , in his dissenting judgment , protested against the strained construction put on words with the effect of giving an uncontrolled power of imprisonment to the minister . Then he proceeded to observe : `` The words have only one meaning . They arc used with that meaning in statements of the common