doubt that this Order does not apply to persons who have been detained under the provisions of the earlier No . 4 of 1950 , and so , in limiting the application of the Order to persons who have been detained under the Ordinance , the President has acted outside the powers conferred on him by article 359 ( 1 ) . In our opinion , this argument can not be sustained . The power conferred on the President is wide enough to enable him to make an Order applicable to all parts of the country and to all 827 citizens and in respect of any of the rights conferred by Part 111 . This wide power obviously includes the power to issue a limited order . What the Order purports to do is to provide that all persons wherever they reside who have been detained under the Ordinance or the Act , will be precluded from moving any court for the enforcement of the rights specified in the Order . It is not easy to see how this Order can be said to contravene or be otherwise inconsistent with the powers conferred on the President by article 359 ( 1 ) . It is then argued that the said Order is invalid because it seeks to give effect to the Ordinance which is void . It will be recalled that Ordinance No . 4 of 1962 was promul gated on the 26th October , 1962 , whereas the Order was issued under article 359 ( 1 ) on the 3rd November , 1962 . The argument is that during the period between the 26th October and the 3rd November the validity of the said Ordinance could have been challenged on the ground that it contravened articles 14 , 21 and 22 , and so , the said Ordinance can be held to have been a still born piece of legislation and yet detentions effected under such a void law are sought to be protected by the Presidential Order by depriving the the detenues of their right to move any court to challenge the validity of the orders of detention passed against them . In our opinion , this argument is wholly misconceived . We have already stated that for the purpose 'of these appeals , we are prepared to assume that despite the issue of the Order under article 359 ( 1 ) , the fundamental rights guaranteed by articles 14 , 21 and 22 are not suspended ; what is suspended is the enforcement of the said rights during the prescribed period , and so , what is said about the invalidity of the Ordinance during the period between 26th October and 3rd November is true even after the Order was issued on the 3rd November . If the detenues are justified in contending that the Ordinance and the Act which took its place contravened the fundamental rights guaranteed by articles 14 , 21 and 22 , the said Ordinance and the Act would be and would continue to be invalid ; but the effect of the Presidential Order is that their invalidity can not be tested during the prescribed period . Therefore , the argument that since the Ordinance or the Act is invalid , the Presidential Order can not preclude a citizen from test 828 ing its validity , must be rejected . The same argument is put in another form . It is urged that we have merely to examine the Ordinance and Act to be satisfied that articles 14 , 21 and 22 ( 4 ) , ( 5 ) and ( 7 ) have been contravened and it is suggested that if these infirmities in the Ordinance and the Act are glaring , it would not be open to the President to issue an Order pre venting the detenues from challenging the validity of the said statutory provisions . That , in substance , is what is described by this Court in Mohan Choudhury 's case ( 1 ) as arguing in the circle '' . Therefore , we are satisfied that the challenge to the validity of the Presidential Order is not well founded . It still remains to consider what are the pleas which are now open to the citizens to take in challenging the legality or the propriety of their detentions either under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the Code , or article 226 ( 1 ) of the Constitution . We have already seen that the right to move any court which is suspended by article 359 ( 1 ) and the Presidential Order issued under it is the right for the enforcement of such of the rights conferred by Part III as may be mentioned in the Order . If in challenging the validity of his detention order , the detenu is pleading any right outside the rights specified in the Order , his right to move any court in that behalf is not suspended , because it is outside article 359 ( 1 ) and consequently outside the Presidential Order itself . Let us take a case where a detenu has been detained in violation of the mandatory provisions of the Act . In such a case , it may be open to the detenu to contend that his detention is illegal for the reason that the mandatory provisions of the Act have been contravened . Such a plea is outside article 359 ( 1 ) and the right of the detenu to move for his release on such a ground can not be affected by the Presidential Order . Take also a case where the detenu moves the Court for a writ of habeas corpus on the ground that his detention has been ordered malafide . It is hardly necessary to emphasise that the exercise of a power malafide is wholly outside the scope of the Act conferring the power and can