be reached to examine the merits of their complaint that the said statutory provisions are invalid . If , however , they fail on the first point , the second Point would not fall to be considered . We then took the view that since a large number of appeals were placed for hearing before us and they raised important issues of Constitutional Law , it would be better to allow Mr. Setalvad to argue the case in the manner he thought best , and so , Mr. Setalvad addressed us on the validity of the Act in the first instance and then dealt with the question about the competence of the applications made under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the Code . In the main , the same method was adopted by the learned Advocates who followed Mr. Setalvad on the appellants ' side . Naturally , when the learned Attorney General made his reply , he also had to address us on both the points . It appeared that as regards the validity of the impugned provisions of the Act and the Rules he was not in a position to challenge the contention of the appellants that the Act contravened articles 14 , 21 and 22 ( 4 ) , ( 5 ) & ( 7 ) . Even so , he strongly pressed before us his original contention that we would not reach the stage of expressing our opinion on the validity of the Act if we were to uphold the preliminary objection that the applications made by the detenues were incompetent . In our opinion , the learned Attorney General is right when he contends that we should not and can not pronounce any opinion on the validity of the impugned Act if we come to the conclusion that the bar created by the Presidential Order operates against the detenues in the present cases . In fact , that is the course which this Court 841 adopted in dealing with Mohan Choudhury 's case ( 1 ) , and we are satisfied that that is the only course which this Court can logically and with propriety adopt . In the result , we hold that the Punjab and the Bombay High Court are right in coming to the conclusion that the applications made by the detenues for their release under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) , Cr . P. C. are incompetent in so far as they seek to challenge the validity of their detentions on the ground that the Act and the Rule under which they are detained suffer from the vice that they contravene the fundamental rights guaranteed by articles 14 , 21 and 22 ( 4 ) , ( 5 ) and ( 7 ) . Since these appeals were placed before the Special Bench for the decision of the common questions of law raised by them , we do not propose to examine the other contentions which each one of the appellants seeks to raise in his appeal . Therefore , we direct that all the appeals included in the present group should now be set down before a Constitution Bench and each one of them should be dealt with in accordance with law . SUBBA RAO J. I have had the advantage of reading the judgment of my learned brother , Gajendragadkar J. I regret my inability to agree with him wholly . I agree with his conclusion in regard to the applicability of article 359 of the Constitution to a right to move a court both under article 32 ( 1 ) and article 226 thereof , but not with his conclusion in regard to the exercise of power by the High Court under s.491 of the Code of Criminal Procedure . These appeals raise questions of great importance touching apparently conflicting , but really harmonious , concepts of individual liberty and security of the State , for the former can not exist without the latter . My only Justification for a separate treatment of the subject even on questions on which , here is general agreement is my conviction that on important questions I should express my thoughts in my own way . Broadly , two questions are posed for the consideration of this Court , namely ( i ) whether section 3 ( 2 ) ( 15 ) ( i ) of the Defence of India Act , 1962 ( 51 of 1962 ) , hereinafter called the Act , and r. 30 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the Rules made in exercise of the power conferred under the Act are constitutionally void ; and ( ii ) whether the Order made by the President in exercise of the power conferred on 'him under article 359 ( 1 ) of the Constitution would be a ( 1 ) ; 54 2 section C. India/64 842 bar against the maintainability.of any action in any court to question the validity of the detention order made under the Act . I shall deal with the two questions in the said order . Before dealing with the first question it would be conveni ent to quote the impugned provisions of the Act . Section 3 . ( 1 ) The . Central Government may by notification in the Official Gazette , make such rules as appear to it necessary or expedient for securing the defence of India and civil defence , the public safety , the maintenance of public order or the efficient conduct of military operations , or for maintaining supplies and services essential to the life of the community . ( 2 ) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred by sub section ( 1 ) , the rules may provide for , and may empower any authority to make orders providing for , all or any of the following matters , namely . ( 15 ) notwithstanding anything