of the fundamental rights specified in the President 's Order and , therefore , article 359 can not be so construed as to enlarge the legislative power of Parliament beyond the limits sanctioned by article 358 and , therefore , it should be confined only to executive infringements of the said rights . ( 2 ) Article 359 does not permit the executive to commit fraud on the Constitution by doing indirectly what Parliament can not do directly under article 358 and article 13 ( 2 ) of the Constitution . ( 3 ) For invoking article 359 two conditions must be complied with , namely , ( i ) the party shall have a right to move any court , and ( ii ) only for the enforcement of the rights conferred by Part III . Such a right to move for such a relief is expressly conferred by the Constitution under article 32 . Therefore , the President 's order under article 359 would only suspend the right to move under article 32 and not for approaching the Court under article 226 of the Constitution . In any view , those words are inappropriate to a pre existing statutory right under section 491 of the Code . 850 To appreciate the contentions from a correct perspective it is necessary at the outset to notice the nature of the fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution and the remedy or remedies provided for their enforcement . It would be pedantic to go into the question whether fundamental rights provided for under our Constitution are natural rights or primordial rights : whatever their origin might have been and from whatever source they might have been extracted , they are enshrined in our Constitution in Part III and described as fundamental rights . The constitution declared under article 13 ( 2 ) that the State shall not make any law taking away or abridging the said rights and any law made in contravention of this clause shall be void to the extent of the contravention . After declaring such a law void , it proceeds to provide for the mode of enforcement of the said rights . Article 32 ( 1 ) makes the right to move the Supreme Court by appropriate proceedings for the enforcement of the said rights a guaranteed right . Appropriate proceedings are described in cl . ( 2 ) thereof , that is to say , a person can move the said Court for directions , orders , or writs in the nature described thereunder for the enforcement of any of the said rights . The right to move , therefore , is regulated by the procedure prescribed thereunder . Article 226 , though it does not find a place in Part III of the Constitution , confers a power on every High Court throughout the territories in relation to which it exercises jurisdiction to issue such directions , orders , or writs in the nature described thereunder for the enforcement of any of the rights conferred by Part III . There is a material difference between article 32 and article 226 of the Constitution , namely , while in article 32 the right to move the court is guaranteed , under article 226 no such guarantee is given . But a fair construction of the provisions of article 226 indicates that the right to move , though not guaranteed , is necessarily implied therein . As I have pointed out , under article 32 the right to move the Court is given a practical content by the provision indicating the different modes open to the person who has the said right to approach the Supreme Court . Article 226 employs the same procedure for approaching the High Court and that procedure must necessarily be for the exercise of the right to move that 851 court . When a power is conferred upon the High Court and a procedure is prescribed for a party to approach that court , it is reasonable to imply that the person has a right to move that court in the manner prescribed thereunder . The only difference between article 32 and article 226 is that the Supreme Court can not say , if it is moved in the manner prescribed , that it will not decide on merits , but the High Court , in exercise of its jurisdiction can do so . The decision on merits is left to its discretion , though the exercise of that discretion is regulated by convention and precedent . Further , article 32 ( 3 ) also enables Parliament to make a law empowering any other court to exercise within the local limits of itsjurisdiction all or any of the powers exercisable by theSupreme Court under cl . ( 2 ) thereof . One thing to benoticed is that Parliament can only empower any othercourt to exercise any of the powers exercisable under cl . ( 2 ) ; it can not confer the guaranteed right mentioned in cl . ( 1 ) on any person to move that court . That is to say , the court or courts to which such powers are given would be in the same position as the High Court in respect of the enforcement of the fundamental rights . To put it shortly , no person will have a guaranteed right to move any such other court for the enforcement of fundamental rights . A discretionary jurisdiction similar to that of the High Court can only be conferred on them . For the same reason given in the case of the High Court , an aggrieved party will also have a right to move those courts in the manner prescribed . This analysis leads us to the following position Under the Constitution every person has a right to move , for the enforcement of a fundamental right , the Supreme Court , the High Courts or any