Code. '' In King Emperor vs Vimlabai Deshpande ( 2 ) , a police officer made an arrest of the respondents under sub rule I of r. 129 of the Defence of India Rules , 1939 , which read : `` Any police officer . . may arrest without warrant any person whom he reasonably suspects of having acted . . ( a ) in a manner prejudicial to the public safety or to the efficient prosecution of the war . '' ' The Judicial Committee held that the burden was upon the police officer to prove to the satisfaction of a court before whom the arrest was challenged that he had reasonable grounds of suspicion and that if he failed to discharge that burden , an order made by the Provincial Government under sub rule 4 of r. 129 for the temporary custody of the detenu was invalid . As the police officer failed to discharge the onus , the Privy Council held that the High Court was right in ordering the release of the person from custody under section 491 of the Code of Criminal Procedure . This shows that when a person is detained by a police officer , the burden of establishing that the detention is valid is on him . These authorities well establish that section 491 of the Code does not contemplate any right to move a court by any affected party , but the court can exercise the ( 1 ) I.L.R . ( 1949 ) . II E.P . 28 , 54 . ( 2 ) ( 1946 ) L.R . 73 I.A . 144 . 864 statutory power whenever it thinks fit , if the fact of illegal detention of a person is brought to its notice . The problem may be approached from a slightly different perspective . Three questions may be posed , namely , ( 1 ) has any person the right to move the High Court under section 491 of the Code to enforce his fundamental right ? ( 2 ) would it be necessary for a person detained or any other on his behalf to allege that the detenu has a fundamental right and that it has been infringed by State action and seek a relief for enforcement of that right ? ( 3 ) would it be obligatory on the Court to enforce the right if the said right had been established ? All the questions must be answered in the negative . Under section 491 of the Code there is neither a right in the person detained to move the High Court for the enforcement of the fundamental right nor there is an obligation on the part of the High Court to give the said relief . It is only a discretionary jurisdiction conceived as a check on arbitrary action . There is another aspect of the question . Article 359 has nothing to do with statutory powers conferred by Parliament . Article 359 expressly deals with the constitutional right to move a court and the constitutional enforcement of that right . So far as ordinary laws are concerned , Parliament can always amend the law , having regard to the circumstances obtaining at a particular point of time ; for instance , Parliament could have amended section 491 of the Code by repealing that section altogether or by suitably amending it . Briefly stated , article 359 provides for the suspension of some constitutional rights in the manner prescribed thereunder . The statutory rights are left to be dealt with by the appropriate Legislature in exercise of the powers conferred on them . The argument that the intention of the makers of the Constitution in enacting article 359 would be defeated , if section 491 of the Code was salvaged , does not appeal to me . If Parliament had amended section 491 of the Code , which it should have done if it intended to do so , this alleged anomaly pointed outby the learned Attorney General could not have arisen . I would , therefore , hold that the expression `` rightto move any Court for the enforcement of such of the rights conferred by Part III '' could legitimately refer 865 only to the right to move under article 32 or article 226 of the Constitution for the said specific relief and could not be applied without doing violence to the language used to the exercise of the statutory power conferred on the High Courts under section 491 of the Code . If that be so , the expression `` all proceedings pending in any Court for the enforcement of the rights '' used in the second limb of article 359 must also necessarily refer to proceedings initiated in exercise of the right to move envisaged in the first limb of the article . I shall now proceed to consider some of the minor points raised at the Bar . Another argument advanced on behalf of the respondents may also be briefly noticed . It is said that while article 358 maintains the legislative incompetency to make laws in derogation of fundamental rights other than those enshrined in article 19 , Art , 359 enables the President by an indirect process to enlarge the said legislative competency and , therefore , article 359 must be so read as to confine its scope only to executive acts . I can not agree . Article 359 does not ex facie enlarge the legislative competency of Parliament or a State Legislature . It does not enable them to make laws during the period covered by the order of the President infringing the fundamental rights mentioned therein . It does not empower the Legislatures to make void laws ; it only enables the President to suspend the right to move the Court during the period indicated in his order . Once that period expires , the affected party can move the Court in the