( a ) that a person within the limits of its appellate criminal jurisdiction be brought up before the Court to be dealt with according to law ; ( b ) that a person illegally or improperly detained in public or private custody within such limits be set at liberty * * * * Bearing in mind the said rules of construction , I ask myself the question whether the exercise of the power un ( 1 ) ; ( 2 ) ; 859 der section 491 of the . Code can be equated with a right to move the High Court to enforce such of the fundamental rights conferred by Part III of the Constitution as may be mentioned in the order of the President . It is necessary to ascertain the correct scope of the section to answer the question raised before us . The section is framed in wide terms and a discretionary power is conferred on the High Court to direct one or other of the things mentioned therein `` whenever it thinks fit '' . Unlike article 32 and article 226 , the exercise of the power is not channelled through well recognized procedural writs or orders . With the result the technicalities of such procedural writs do not govern or circumscribe the court 's discretion . A short history of this section reinforces the said view . Originally , the Supreme Courts in India purported to exercise the power to issue a writ of habeas corpus which the Kings ' Bench Division in England exercised . In 1861 Parliament passed Acts 24 25 Vict . 104 authorising the establishment of High Courts of judicature in India . The Letters Patents issued under that Act in 1865 were expressly made subject to the legislative powers of the Governor General in Council . The courts were given the same jurisdiction , power and authority which the Supreme Courts possessed but subject to the legislative power of the Governor General in Council . Pursuant to the power so conferred , the Governor General in Council passed successive Codes of Criminal Procedure in the years 1872 , 1875 , 1882 ; and,1898 , and in 1923 by the Criminal Law ( Amendment ) Act , some of the provisions of the Code of 1898 were amended . The High Courts Act of 1861 authorized the Legislature , if it thought fit , to take away the powers which the High Courts exercised as successor to the Supreme Courts , and Acts of Legislatures passed in 1872 and subsequent years had taken away the power of the High Courts to issue prerogative writs ; and instead a statutory power precisely defined was conferred upon the High Courts . That statutory power underwent various changes and finally took the form of section 491 of the Code , as at present it stands . The attempt to resuscitate the prerogative writs was rejected by the Calcutta High Court in Girindra Nath Banerjee vs Birendra Nath Pal ( 1 ) and ( 1 ) Cal . 727 . 860 by the Madras High Court in District Magistrate , Trivandrum vs Mammen Mappillai ( 1 ) . The Privy Council in Matten vs District Magistrate , Trivandrum ( 2 ) approved the said decisions and held that the said Act . , , have taken away the power of the High Courts to issue prerogative writs and thereafter the only power left in the High Court was that conferred by the statute . By reason of article 372 of the Constitution , the Code of Criminal Procedure , including section 491 thereof , continued to be in force until altered , repealed or amended by the competent Legislature or other competent authority . Article 225 of the Constitution expressly preserved the High Courts ' powers and jurisdiction , subject to other provisions thereof . Admittedly , Parliament has not made any law repealing section 491 of the Code . The statutory power conferred on the High Courts under that section is not inconsistent either article 32 or with article 226 or with any other Article in Part III or any other Chapter of the Constitution . So , it can not be held that section 491 of the Code has been impliedly superseded by article 226 even to the extent it empowers the High Court to give relief to persons illegally detained by the State . Now what is the scope of that section ? Though section 491 of the Code is remedial in form , it postulates the existence of the substantive right . In India , as in England , the rule of law was the accepted principle . No person can be deprived of his liberty except in the manner prescribed by the law of the land . If a person is illegally or improperly detained in violation of the law of the land , the High Court can direct his release `` whenever it thinks fit '' so to do . The section prima facie does not predicate a formal application ; nor does it insist that any particular person shall approach it . The phraseology used is wide enough for the exercise of the power suo motu by the High Court . Nor does the section introduce an antithesis between the exercise of jurisdiction on application and that exercised suo motu ; that is to say , even if an application was filed before the High Court and for one reason or other , no orders could be passed thereon , either because of procedural defect or because it was not pressed , ( 1 ) L.I.R . ( 2 ) L.R . ( 1939 ) 66 I.A . 222 . 861 nothing prevents the High Court from acting suo motu , on the basis of the information brought to its notice . It is said that various High Courts framed rules regulating the procedure of the respective