serious infirmity in the Act itself . On the other hand , if the legislature lays down its legislative policy in clear and unambiguous terms and leaves it to the delegate to execute that policy by means of making appropriate rules , then such delegation is not impermissible . In Harishanker Bagla vs The State of Madhya Pradesh ( 1 ) where the validity of section 3 of the Essential Supplies ( Temporary Powers ) Act , 1946 , was challenged , this Court in upholding the validity of the impugned statute held that the preamble and the body of the relevant sections of the said Act sufficiently formulate the legislative policy and observed that the ambit and the character of the Act is such that the details of that policy can only be worked out by delegating that power to a subordinate authority within the framework of that policy . The same view has been expressed in Bhatnagars and Co. , Ltd. , vs The Union of India ( ) . In the present cases , one has merely to read section 3 ( 1 ) and the detailed provisions contained in the several clauses of section 3 ( 2 ) to be satisfied that the attack against the validity of the said section on the ground of excessive delegation is patently unsustainable . Not only is the legislative policy broadly indicated in the preamble to the Act , but the relevant provisions of the impugned section itself give such detailed and specific guidance to the rule making authority that it would be idle to contend that the Act has delegated essentially legislative function to the rule making authority . In our opinion , therefore , the contention that section 3 ( 2 ) ( 15 ) ( i ) of the Act suffers from the vice of excessive delegation must be rejected . What we have said about this section applies with equal force to section 40 . If the impugned sections of the Act are valid , it follows that Rule 30 ( 1 ) ( b ) which is challenged by the appellants must be ( 1 ) ( 2 ) ; 832 held to be valid since it is consistent with the operative provisions of the Act and in making it , the Central Gov ernment has acted within its delegated authority . This conclusion is , of course , confined to the challenge of the appellants based on the ground that the impugned provisions and the Rule suffer from the vice of excessive delegation . If we had held that the impugned provision in the Act suffered from the vice of excessive delegation , it would have become necessary to consider what the effect of that conclusion would have been on the merits of the controversy between the parties in the present proceedings . If we had reached the conclusion that the impugned sections were invalid because they conferred power on the rule making authority which suffers from the vice of excessive delegation , the question would have arisen whether in challenging the validity of the Order of detention passed against him the detenu is enforcing his fundamental right under article 21 of the Constitution . article 21 is one of the articles specified in the Presidential Order and if at any stage of the proceedings , the detenu seeks to enforce his right under the said Article , that would be barred . It may be urged that if the detenues had been able to show that the impugned provisions of the Act were invalid because they suffered from the infirmity of excessive delegation , the next step which they would have been entitled to take was to urge that their detention under such an Act is void under article 21 , because the law referred to in that Article must be a valid law ; and that would raise the question as to whether this latter plea falls within the ambit of article 359 ( 1 ) and the Presidential Order issued under it . We do not propose to express any opinion on this question in these appeals . Since we have held that the Act does not suffer from the vice of excessive delegation as alleged , it is unnecessary to pursue the enquiry as to whether if the challenge had been upheld , the detenu would have been precluded from urging the said invalidity in support of his plea that his detention was illegal . We must now turn to some other arguments which were urged before us at the hearing of these appeals . Mr. Sule contends that part of the Act containing the im 833 pugned sections was a colourable piece of legislation . His argument was that since the No . 4 of 1950 was already on the statute book , it was hardly necessary for the Legislature to have passed the impugned Act , and he urges that since the sole object of the Legislature in passing the impugned Act was to deprive the citizens of their fundamental rights under articles 21 and 22 , it should be deemed to be a colourable piece of legislation . The legislative competence of the Parliament to pass this Act is not disputed . Entry No . 9 in List I in the Seventh Schedule confers on the Parliament jurisdiction to make laws in regard to the preventive detention for reasons connected with defence , foreign affairs , or the security of India as well as in regard to persons subjected to such detention . If the Legislature thought that having regard to the grave threat to the security of India posed by the Chinese aggression , it was necessary to pass the impugned Act notwithstanding the fact that another Act had already been passed in that behalf , it would be difficult to hold that the Legislature had acted malafide and that the Act must , therefore