were substituted . On December , 6 , 1962 , Rule 30 as originally framed was amended and Rule 30 A added . Last came the Act on December 12 1962 . Section 48 ( 1 ) of the Act has provided for the repeal of the Ordinances Nos . 4 and 6 of 1962 . Section 48 ( 2 ) provides that notwithstanding such repeal , any rules made , anything done or any action taken under the aforesaid two Ordinances shall be deemed to have been made , done or taken under this Act as if this Act had commenced on October 26 , 1962 . That is how the Rules made under the Ordinance continued to be the Rules under the Act , and it is under Rule 30 ( 1 ) ( b ) that the appellants have been detained . Before dealing with the points which have been raised for our decision in the present appeals , it is necessary to indicate briefly at the outset the general argument which has been urged before us by Mr. Setalvad on behalf of the appellants , and the learned Attorney General on the other side . article 359 ( 1 . ) which falls to be construed , occurs in Part XVIII of the Constitution which makes emergency provisions . Whenever the security of India or any part of the territory of India is threatened whether by war or by external aggression or internal disturbance , the President may , under article 352 , by proclamation , make a declaration to , hat effect . Articles 353 to 360 which occur in this Part thus constitute emergency provisions . The learned 808 Attorney General contends that in construing an emergency provision like article 359 ( 1 ) , we must bear in mind the fact that the said Article is intended to deal with a situation which has posed a threat to the security of India , and so , fundamental rights guaranteed by Part III which are un doubtedly of vital importance to the democratic way of life guaranteed by the Constitution have to be regulated during an emergency , because the very security of the nation is exposed to serious jeopardy . The security of the nation on such a solemn occasion must have precedence over the liberty of the individual citizens , and so , it is urged that if article 359 is capable of two constructions , one in favour of the fundamental rights of the citizens , and the other in favour of the grant of power to the President to control those rights , the Court should lean in favour of the grant rather than in favour of the individual citizen 's fundamental rights . In support of this argument , the learned Attorney General has relied on two decisions of the House of Lords . In The King ( At the Prosecution of Arthur Zadig ) vs Halliday , ( 1 ) Lord Finlay L. C. who was called upon to construe Regulation 14B of the Defence of the Realm ( Consolidation ) Regulations Act , 1914 , noticed the argument that if the Legislature had intended to interfere with personal liberty , it would have provided , as on previous occasions of national danger , for suspension of the rights of the subject as to a writ of habeas corpus , and rejected it with the observations that the Legislature bad selected another war of achieving the same purposes , probably milder as well as more effectual than those adopted on the occasion of previous wars . He added that the suggested rule as to construing penal statutes and the provision as to trial of British subjects by jury made by the Defence of the Realm Act , 1915 , have no relevance in dealing with an executive measure by way of preventing a public danger . The majority decision of the House of Lords in Liversidge vs Sir John Anderson ( 2 ) has also been relied upon by the learned Attorney General . In that case , the House or Lords had to consider the true scope and effect of Regulation 18B of the Defence ( General ) Regulations , 1939 . ( 1 ) ; , 270 . ( 2 ) ; 809 Viscount Maugham in I rejecting the argument of the detenu that the liberty of the subject was involved and that the legislation dealing with the liberty of the subject must be construed , if possible , in favour of the subject and against the Crown , quoted with approval the language of Lord Finlay , L. C. , in the case of Rex vs Halliday ( 1 ) . Lord Macmillan who took the same view observed that it is right so to interpret emergency legislation as to promote rather than to defeat its efficacy for the defence of the realm . That is in accordance with a general rule applicable to the interpretation of all statutes or statutory regulations in peace time as well as in war time . Lord Wright and Lord Romer adopted the same approach . The Attorney General relies on the fact that this approach has also been adopted by Gwyer , C. J. , in Keshav Talpade vs The King Emperor ( 2 ) . In making his contention in regard to the proper approach . which the Court should adopt in construing article 359 , the learned Attorney General no doubt contended that the question about the approach would arise only if two constructions are reasonably possible . According to him , article 359 was capable of only one construction and that is the construction which the High Courts of Punjab and Bombay have accepted . On the other hand , Mr. Setalvad has argued that article 359 is not an emergency legislation properly so called and on the merits , he has strongly resisted the