( 1 ) ( b ) are invalid because they contravene the fundamental rights guaranteed to the citizens under articles 14 , 21 and 22 and so , the sole issue which falls to be determined between the parties relates to the validity of the relevant statutory provisions and Rules . If the impugned provisions in the Act and the Rules are ultra Vires the detention is illegal and improper , but if , on the other hand , the said provisions are valid , the detention is legal and proper . In deciding this point , the Court will naturally have to take into account the provisions of section 45 ( 1 ) of the Act . Section 45 ( 1 ) provides that no order made in exercise of any power conferred by or under this Act shall be called in question in any Court ; and the reply of the detenu inevitably would be that notwithstanding this provision , the validity of the impugned legislation must be tested . This clearly brings out the true nature and character of the dispute which is raised before the Court by the detenu in asking for the issue of a writ of habeas corpus in the present proceedings . The question which thus arises for our decision is , can it be said that the proceedings taken under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) are 823 of such a distinctly separate character that they can not fall under article 359 ( 1 ) ? Under section 491 as it stood before the date of the Constitution , it would have been open to the detenu to contend that the law under which he was detained was invalid , because it was passed by a legislature without legislative competence . The validity of the law might also have been challenged on the ground that the operative provision in the law suffered from the vice of excessive.delegation . The detenu might also have urged that in detaining him the mandatory provisions under the Act had not been complied with . But before the Constitution was adopted , it would not have been open to the detenu to claim that the impugned law was invalid because it contravened his fundamental rights guranteed by the relevant Articles of the Constitution . The right to challenge the validity of a statute on the ground that it contravenes the fundamental rights of the citizens has accrued to the citizens of this country only after and as a result of the provisions of the Constitution itself , and SO , there can be no doubt that when in the present proceedings the detenues seek to challenge the validity of the impugned statutory provision and the Rule , they are invoking their fundamental rights under the Constitution . If section 491. is treated as standing by itself and apart from the provisions of the Constitution , the plea raised by the detenues can not be entertained in the proceedings taken under that section ; it is only when the proceedings taken under the said section are dealt with not only in the light of section 491 and of the rights which were available to the citizens before 1950 , but when they are considered also in the light of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution that the relevant plea can be raised . In other words , it is clear that the content of the detenu 's right to challenge the legality of his detention which was available to him under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) prior to the Constitution , has been enlarged by the fundamental rights guaranteed to the citizens by the Constitution , and so , whenever a detenu relies upon his fundamental rights even in support of his petition made under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) he is really enforcing the said rights and in that sense , the proceedings inevitably partake of the character of proceedings taken by the detenu for enforcing these rights ; that is why the argument that article 359 ( 1 ) 824 and the Presidential Order issued under it do not apply to the proceedings under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) can not be sustained . The prohibition contained in the said Article and the Presidential Order will apply as much to proceedings under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) as to those under article 226 ( 1 ) & article 32 ( 1 ) . In this connection , it is hardly necessary to emphasise that in deciding the present question , we must take into account the substance of the matter and not attach undue or exaggerated importance to the form of the proceedings . If the form which the proceedings take is held to be decisive in the matter , it would lead to this irrational position that an application containing the requisite averments in support of a plea for the release of the detenu , would be thrown out by the High Court if in form it purports to be made under article 226 , whereas it would be entertained and may indeed succeed if it purports to be made under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) . Indeed , this argument seems to suggest that when the Constitution makers drafted article 359 , they intended that whenever an emergency arises and a Presidential Order is issued under article 359 ( 1 ) in regard to the fundamental rights guaranteed by articles 21 and 22 , it would be necessary to pass another piece of legislation providing for an appropriate change or repeal of a part of the provision of section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) , Cr . P. C. ; and since the legislature has through oversight omitted to pass the necessary Act in that behalf , proceedings under section 491 ( 1 )