and during the operation of the Order , the said right can not be exercised by instituting a fresh proceeding contrary to the Order . If a fresh proceeding failing within the mischief of article 359 ( 1 ) and the Presidential Order issued under it is instituted after the Order has been issued , it will have to be dismissed as being incompetent . In other words , article 359 ( 1 ) and the Presidential Order issued under it may constitute a sort of moratorium or a blanket ban against the institution or continuance of any legal action subject to two important conditions . The first condition relates to the character of the legal action and requires that the said action must seek to obtain a relief on the ground that the claimant 's fundamental rights specified in the Presidential Order have been contravened , and the second condition relates to the period during which this ban is to operate . The ban operates either for the period of the Proclamation or for such shorter period as may be specified in the Order . There is yet another distinction between the provisions of article 358 and article 359 ( 1 ) . The suspension of Art ' . 19 for which , provision is made under article 358 applies to the whole of the country , and so , covers all legislatures and also States . On the other hand , the Order issued under article 359 ( 1 ) may extend to the whole of India or may be confined to any part of the territory of India . These , broadly stated , are the points of distinction between article 358 and article 359 ( 1 ) , What then is the true scope and effect of , article 359 ( 1 ) . ? Mr. Setalvad contends that the right to move any court for the enforcement of such of the rights conferred by Part III as may be mentioned in the Order should be construed to mean the right to move the Supreme Court which has been guaranteed by article 32 ( 1 ) . He suggests that as one reads the relevant clause in article 359 ( 1 ) , one seems 815 to hear the echo of the right which has been constitu tionally guaranteed by article 32 ( 1 ) . His argument , therefore , is that the only right of which a citizen can be deprived under article 359 ( 1 ) is the right to , move the Supreme Court , and so , his case is that even in regard to fundamental rights specified in the Presidential Order , a citizen is entitled to ask for reliefs from the High Court under article 226 because the right to move the High Court flowing from article 226 does not fall within the mischief of article 359 ( 1 ) . This argument attempts to interpret the words `` the right to move for the enforcement of the specified rights '' in isolation and without ; taking into account the other words which indicate that the right to move which is specified in the said Article is the right to move `` any courts $ . In plain language , the words `` any court '' can not mean only the Supreme Court they would necessarily take in all courts of competent jurisdiction . If the intention of the Constitution makers was to confine the operation of article 359 ( 1 ) to the right to move only the Supreme Court , nothing could have been easier than to say so expressly instead of using the wider words `` the right to move any court . ' ) To meet this difficulty , Mr . Setalvad attempted to invoke the assistance of article 32 ( 3 ) . article 32 ( 3 ) provides that without prejudice to the : powers conferred on the Supreme Court by clauses ( 1 ) and ' ( 2 ) , Parliament may by law empower any other court , to exercise within the local limits of its jurisdiction all or any of the powers exercisable by the Supreme Court under clause ( 2 ) . The argument is that the Constitution contemplates that there may be some other courts in the country on which the powers exercisable by the Supreme Court under article 32 ( 2 ) may be conferred , and so , the words `` any court '' may have been intended to take within their purview the Supreme Court and such other courts oil whom the Supreme Courts powers under article 32 ( 2 ) may have been conferred . This argument is fallacious . The scheme of article 32 clearly indicates that the right to move this Court which itself is a guaranteed fundamental right , , can not be claimed in respect of courts falling under article 32 ( 3 ) . article 32 ( 3 ) merely provides for the conferment of this Court 's 816 powers under article 32 ( 2 ) on the courts specified in clause ( 3 ) . The right guaranteed by article 32 ( 1 ) can not be claimed in respect of the said other courts . Therefore , oh a plain construction of the relevant clauses of article 32 , it is impossible to accept the argument that courts under article 32 ( 3 ) must be regarded as having the same status as the Supreme Court and as such the right to move them must also be held to constitute a fundamental right of the citizen in respect of such courts . Besides , it would be irrational to suggest that whereas the Constitution did not confer on the citizens a guaranteed fundamental right to move the High Court under article 226 , it thought of conferring such a guaranteed fundamental right in regard to courts on