or enacted law and that article 22 lays down only the minimum procedural conditions which such a ( 1 ) [ 1959 ] Supp . 2 S.C.R . 8 , 40 . ( 2 ) ; ( 3 ) ; 845 a statutory law can not infringe in the matter of pre ventive detention . The minimum conditions arc as follows : ( 1 ) Parliament may make a law prescribing the maximum period for which any person may be detained ; ( 2 ) he shall not be detained for a period more than 3 months unless an Advisory Board constituted for that purpose reports before the expiry of three months that there is sufficient cause for detention ; and ( 3 ) the authority making the order shall communicate to such person the grounds on which the order has been made and afford him the earliest opportunity of making representations against the order . At the same time cl . ( 7 ) enables Parliament to make a law prescribing the circumstances under which and the class or classes of cases in which a person may be detained for a period longer than three months without obtaining the opinion of the Advisory Board . Clause ( 6 ) of article 22 enables an authority not to disclose facts to the detenu which it considers to be against the public interest to disclose . While cls . ( 4 ) to ( 6 ) of article 22 provide for the minimum safeguards for a dctenu in the matter of preventive detention , cl . ( 7 ) removes them enabling Parliament to make a law for preventive detention ignoring practically the said safeguards . The only outstanding safeguard , therefore , is that Parliament can only make a law in derogation of the said safeguards by defining the circumstances under which and the class or classes of cases in which a person may be so detained . Parliament did not make such a law . Neither the Act nor the rules made thereunder satisfy the conditions laid down in that clause . The Act and the rules do not provide for the maximum period of detention , for the communication to the detenu of the grounds of detention , for affording him an opportunity of making representations against his detention , or for an Advisory Board consisting of persons with the requisite qualifications . The power to review given to the detaining authority can not conceivably satisfy the condition of an Advisory Board provided for under cl . ( 4 ) ( a ) of article 22 . It is , therefore , a clear case of Parliament making a law in direct infringment of the relevant provisions of article 22 of the Constitution , and therefore the law so made is void under the said Article. , 846 In this context a relevant aspect of the argument advanced by the learned Attorney General may be noticed . He contends that , on a true construction of article 359 ( 1 ) of the Constitution , if the requisite order is made by the President , a law can be made in infringement of article 22 of the Constitution . Under article 359 , the President may by order declare that the right to move any court for the enforcement of such of the rights conferred by Part III as may be mentioned in the order shall remain suspended for the period during which a Proclamation of Emergency is in force or for such shorter period as may be specified in the order . It is contended that when remedy is suspended in respect of infringement of article 22 , the right thereunder also falls with it . It is said that right and remedy are reciprocal ; and if there can not be a right without a remedy , there can not also be a remedy without a right . In `` Salmond on jurisprudence '' , 11th Edn. , the following interesting passage is found , at p. 531 , under the heading `` Ubi jus Ibi Remedium '' ; `` Whenever there is a right , there should also be an action for its enforcement . That is to say , the substantive law should determine the scope of the law of procedure , and not vice versa . Legal procedure should be sufficiently elastic and comprehensive to afford the requisite means for the protection of all rights which the substantive law sees fit to recognize . In early systems this is far from being the case . We there find remedies and forms of action determining rights than rights determining remedies . The maxim of primitive law is rather , Ubi remedium ibi jus. '' I understand this passage to mean that a right pertains to the substantive law and the remedy , to procedural law ; that where a right is provided by a statute a remedy , though not expressly provided for , may necessarily be implied . But the converse , though obtained in primitive law , can not be invoked in modern times . To put it in other words , the suspension of a remedy can not abrogate the right itself . Indeed , a comparative study of articles 358 and 359 of the Constitution indicates that it could not have been the intention of the makers of the Constitution , for article 358 expressly suspends the right whereas article 359 suspends the remedy . If the contention of the learned Attorney 847 General be accepted , both have the same effect : if that was the intention of the makers of the Constitution , they would not have expressed themselves in different ways in the two articles . Where they intended to suspend the right , they expressly said so , and where they intended only to suspend the remedy , they stated so . We can not ,