High Courts , but that fact is not much relevance in the matter of construing the section . Shortly stated , the High Court is given an absolute discretion to direct a person , who has been illegally detained , to be released , whenever that fact is brought to its notice through whatever source it may be . This juris diction existed long before the Constitution was made and long before the fundamental rights were conferred upon the people under the Constitution . The rights , substantive as well as procedural , conferred under Part III and article 226 on the one hand and under section 491 of the Code on the other , are different . Under articles 32 and 226 , an affected party can approach the Supreme Court or the High Court , as the case may be , only in the manner prescribed under article 32 ( 2 ) or article 226 i.e. , by way of writs and orders mentioned therein : he must ask the court for the enforcement of this fundamental right . The relief implies that he must establish that he has a fundamental right , that his fundamental right has been infringed by the State and , therefore , the Court should give the appropriate relief for the enforcement of that right . Both the right as well as the procedure are the creatures of the Constitution . Whereas section 491 of the Code assumes the existence of the `` rule of law '' and confers a power on the High Court to direct persons in illegal detention to be set at liberty . It is not bound by any technical procedures envisaged by the Constitution . If a person approaches the High Court alleging that he or some other person has been illegally detained , the Court calls upon the detaining authority to sustain the validity of the action . The onus of proof lies on the custodian to establish that the person is detained under a legal process ; but if it fails to establish that the person is detained under law , the said person may be released . It is true that the detaining authority will have to satisfy the court that the law under which the detention is made is a valid one . It may also be true that in scrutinizing the validity of that law the court has to go into the question whether the law offends any of the fundamental rights mentioned 862 in Part III of the Constitution . But that circumstance does not by any process of involved reasoning make the said proceeding one initiated in exercise of the right to move the High Court for the enforcement of the petitioner 's fundamental right . The distinction between the two lies in the fact that one is an enforcement of a petitioner 's fundamental right and the other , a decision on the unconstitutionality of a law because of its infringement of fundamental rights generally . Further , the right and the relief have a technical and specific significance given to them by the Constitution . They can not be equated with the mode of approach to the High Court under section 491 of the Code or with the expression '' whenever it thinks fit '' confers an absolute discretionon the court to exercise its power thereunder or not todo so , having regard to the circumstances of each case . While the word `` may '' used in a statute was sometimes construed as imposing a duty on the authority concerned on whom a power is conferred to exercise the . same if the circumstances necessitated its exercise , the expression `` whenever it thinks fit '' does Rot warrant any such limitation on its absolute discretion . Though ordi narily a High Court may safely be relied upon to exercise its powers when the liberty of a citizen is illegally violated by any authority , the said unlimited discretion certainly enables it in extraordinary circumstances to refuse to come to his rescue . The absolute discretionary jurisdiction conferred under section 491 of the Code can not be put on a par with the jurisdiction conferred under article 226 of the Constitution hedged in by constitutional limitations ' A brief reference to decided cases on the scope of section 491 of the Code will make my meaning clear . In Alam Khan vs The Crown ( 1 ) , the Full Bench of the Lahore High Court has defined the scope of section 491 of the Code . Ram Lall , J. , who spoke for the majority , stated , after quoting the relevant part of the section `` The language of the section places no limit on the class of person or persons who can move a High Court with relation to a person in custody and if the ( 1 ) Lahore 274 , 303 . 863 High Court on hearing the petition thinks fit . to do so , may make an order that he be dealt with according to law. '' In Ramji Lal vs The Crown ( 1 ) , a Full Bench decision of the East Punjab High Court , Mahajan , J. , as he then was , defined the wide scope of the section thus `` Whatever may be the state of English law on the subject so far as section 491 of the Criminal Procedure Code is concerned it has been very widely worded and confers Jurisdiction on the Court to issue directions whenever it thinks fit . The Court may be moved by the prisoner or by some relation of his , or it may act suo motu if it acquires knowledge that a certain person has been illegally detained . The mode and manner in which the judge has to be satisfied can not affect the Jurisdiction conferred on him under section 491 of the Criminal Procedure