therefore , accept this contention . At this stage I may also notice the argument of the learned Attorney General that article 359 , by enabling the President to suspend the right to move for the enforcement of the fundamental rights mentioned therein , impliedly permitted Parliament to make laws in violation of those fundamental rights in respect whereof the right to move the court is suspended . I can not appreciate this argument . It is one thing to suggest that in view of the amplitude of the phraseology used in article 359 , the right to move for the enforcement of fundamental rights infringed by a void law , even deliberately made by Parliament , is suspended but it is a different thing to visualize a situation when the Constitution permitted Parliament under the shelter of executive fiat to make void laws . Indeed , a comparison of article 358 and article 359 I shall deal with them in detail later on indicates the contrary . I can not for a moment attribute to the august body , the Parliament , the intention to make solemnly void laws . It may have made the present impugned Act bona fide thinking that it is sanctioned by the provisions of the Constitution . Whatever it may be , the result is , we have now a void Act on the statute book and under that Act the appellants before us have been detained illegally . To use the felicitous language of Lord Atkin , in this country `` amid the clash of arms , the laws are not silent ; they may be chanced , but they speak the same language in war as in peace '' . The tendency to ignore the rule of law is contagious , and , if our Parliament , which unwittingly made a void law , not only allows it to remain on the statute book , but also permits it to be administered by the executive , the contagion may spread to the people , and the habit of lawlessness , like other habits , dies hard . Though it is not my province , I venture to suggest , if I may , that the Act can be amended in conformity with our Constitution without it losing its effectiveness . This leads us to the question whether the appellants , 948 who are illegally detained , can move this Court under article 32 of the Constitution or the High Court under article 226 thereof or under section 491 of the Code of Criminal Procedure , hereinafter called the Code . It would be convenient at this stage to read the relevant provisions of the Constitution . Article 32 . ( 1 ) The right to move the Supreme Court by appropriate proceedings for the enforcement of the rights conferred by this Part is guaranteed . * * * * ( 3 ) Without prejudice to the powers conferred on the Supreme Court by clauses ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) , Parliament may by law empower any other Court to exercise within the local limits of its jurisdiction all or any of the powers exercisable by the Supreme Court under clause ( 2 ) . ( 4 ) The right guaranteed by this article shall not be suspended except as otherwise provided for by this Constitution . Article . 226 ( 1 ) Notwithstanding anything in article 32 , every High Court shall have power , throughout the territories in relation to which it exercises jurisdiction , to issue to any person or authority , including in appropriate cases any Government , within those territories directions , orders or writs , including writs in the nature of habeas corpus , mandamus , prohibition , ' quo warranto and certiorari , or any of them , for the enforcement of any of the rights conferred by Part III and for any other purpose . ( 2 ) The power conferred on a High Court by clause ( 1 ) shall not be in derogation of the power conferred on the Supreme Court by clause ( 2 ) of article 32 . Article 358 . While a Proclamation of Emergency is in operation nothing in article 19 shall restrict the power of the State as defined in Part III to make any law or to take any executive action which the State would but for the provisions contained in the Part be competent to make or to take , but any law so made shall , to the extent of the incompetency , cease to have effect as soon as the Proclamation ceases to operate , 849 except as respects things done or omitted to be done before the law so ceases to have effect . Article 359 ( 1 ) Where a Proclamation of Emergency is in operation , the President may by order declare that the right to move any court for the enforcement of such of the rights conferred by Part III as may be mentioned in the order and all proceedings pending in any court for the enforcement of the rights so mentioned shall remain suspended for the period during which the Proclamation is in force or for such shorter period as may be specified in the order . Article 33 confers power on Parliament to modify the rights conferred by Part III in their application to Armed Forces or the Forces charged with the maintenance of public order ; article 34 enables Parliament to impose restrictions an the rights conferred by Part III while martial law is in force in any area . The contention of learned counsel for the appellants on the construction of the said provisions may be classified under the following heads : ( 1 ) article 358 permits the State to make laws only in infringement of article 19 of the Constitution , and article 359 suspends only the right to move the enforcement