always be successfully challenged . It is true that a mere allegation that the detention is malafide would not be ( 1 ) ; 829 enough ; the detenu will have to prove the malafides . But if the malafides are alleged , the detenu can not be precluded from substantiating his plea on the ground of the bar created by article 359 ( 1 ) and the Presidential Order . That is another kind of plea which is outside the purview of article 359 ( 1 ) . Section 491 ( 1 ) deals with the power of the High Court to issue directions in the nature of the habeas corpus , and it covers six categories of cases in which such a direction , can be issued . It is only in regard to that class of cases falling under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) where the legality of the deten tion is challenged on grounds which fall under article 359 ( 1 ) and Presidential Order that the bar would operate . In all other cases falling under section 491 ( 1 ) the bar would be inap plicable and proceedings taken on behalf of the detenu will have to be tried in accordance with law . We ought to add that these categories of pleas have been mentioned by us by way of illustration , and so , they should not be read as exhausting all the pleas which do not fall within the purview of the Presidential Order . There is yet another ground on which the validity of the detention may be open to challenge . If a detenu contends that the operative provision of the law under which he is detained suffers from the vice of excessive delegation and is , therefore , invalid , the plea thus raised by the detenu can not at the threshold be said to be barred by the Presi dential Order . In terms , it is not a plea which is relatable to the fundamental rights specified in the said Order . It is a plea which is independent of the said rights and its validity must be examined . Mr. Chatterjee has urged before us that section 3 ( 2 ) ( 15 ) ( i ) as well as section 40 of the Act are invalid , because they confer oil the rule making authoritypower which is often described as excessive delegation . It is , therefore , necessary to consider this point . The Actwhich took the place of the Ordinance was passed , because it was thought necessary to provide for special measures to ensure the public safety and interest , the defence of India and civil defence and for the trial of certain offences and for matters connected therewith . Section 3 ( 2 ) ( 15 ) ( i ) whose validity is challenged purports to confer on the Central Government power to make Rules . Section 3 ( 1 ) reads thus : 830 `` The Central Government may , by notification in the Official Gazette , make such rules as appear to it necessary or expedient for securing the defence of India and civil defence , the public safety , the maintenance of public order or the efficient conduct of military operations , or for maintaining supplies and services essential to the life of the community . '' Section 3 ( 2 ) provides that without prejudice to the gene rality of the powers conferred by sub section ( 1 ) the rules may provide for , and may empower any authority to make orders providing for , all or any of the following matters ; then follow clauses ( 1 ) to ( 57 ) , including several subclauses which provide for the matters that may be covered by the Rules . Amongst them is cl . ( 15 ) ( i ) which reads as under : `` Notwithstanding anything in any other law for the time being in force , the rules to be made may provide for the apprehension and detention in custody of any person whom the authority empowered by the rules to apprehend or detain ( the authority empowered to detain not being lower in rank than that of a District Magistrate ) suspects , on grounds appearing to that authority to be reasonable , of being of hostile origin or of having acted , acting , being about to act or being likely to act in a manncr prejudicial to the defence of India and civil defence , the security of the State , the public safety or interest , the maintenance of public order , India 's relations with foreign States , the maintenance of peaceful conditions in any part or area of India or the efficient conduct of military operations , or with respect to whom that authority is satisfied that his apprehension and detention are necessary for the purpose of preventing him from acting in any such prejudicial manner. '' The argument is that in conferring power on the Central Government to make rules , the legislature has abdicated its essentially legislative function in favour of the Central Government . In our opinion , this argument is wholly un tenable . Right up from the time when this Court dealt with Special References in 1951 , In re The etc . ( 1 ) the question about the limits within which ( 1 ) ; 831 the legislature can legitimately confer powers on its dele gate has been examined on several occasions and it has been consistently held that what the legislature is prohibited from doing is to delegate its essentially legislative func tion and power . If it appears from the relevant provisions of the impugned statute that powers which have been delegated include powers which can legitimately be regarded as essentially legislative powers , then the legislation is bad and it introduces a