which the Supreme ' Court 's powers under article 32 ( 2 ) would be conferred by article 32 ( 3 ) . Therefore , the attempt to suggest that 'the use of the words `` any Court '' used in article 359 ( 1 ) is justified because they take in the Supreme Court and some other courts , fails and the conclusion inevitably follows that the words `` any court '' must be given their plain grammatical meaning and must be construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction . In other words the words `` any court '' include the Supreme Court and the High Courts before which the specified rights can be enforced by the citizens . In this connection , it was attempted to be argued that the power of the High Court to issue the writs or orders specified in article 226 ( 1 ) is a discretionary power and as such , no citizen can claim to have a right to move the High Court in that behalf , and ' . so , it was suggested that the proceedings contemplated by article 226 ( 1 ) are outside the purview of article 359 ( 1 ) . In our opinion , this argument is not well founded . It is true that in issuing writs or orders under article 226 ( 1 ) , the High Courts have discretion to decide whether a writ or , % , order should be issued as claimed by the petitioner ; but the discretion conferred on the High Courts in that behalf has to be judicially exer cised , and having regard to the scheme of article 226 ( 1 ) , it can not be said that a citizen . has no right to move the High Court for invoking its jurisdiction under article 226 ( 1 ) ; article 226 ( 1 ) confers wide powers on the High Courts to issue the specified writs , or other appropriate orders or directions ; having regard to the nature of the said powers , 817 and the object intended to be achieved by their conferment there can be little doubt that in dealing with applications made before them the High Courts have to exercise their discretion in a judicial manner and in accordance with principles which are well settled in that behalf . The High Courts can not capriciously or unreasonably refuse to en tertain the said applications and to deal with them on the merits on the sole ground that the exercise of their juris diction under article 226 ( 1 ) is discretionary . Therefore , it is idle to suggest that the proceedings taken by citizens under article 226 ( 1 ) are outside the purview of article 359 ( 1 ) . We must accordingly hold that the right to move any court under article 359 ( 1 ) refers to the right to move any court of competent jurisdiction . The next question to consider is , what is the nature of the proceedings which are barred by the Presidential Order issued under article 359 ( 1 ) ? They are proceedings taken by citizens for the enforcement of such of the rights conferred by Part III as may be mentioned in the order . If a citizen moves any court to obtain a relief on the ground that his fundamental rights specified in the Order have been contravened , that proceeding is barred . In determining the question as to whether a particular proceeding falls within the mischief of the Presidential Order or not , what has to be examined is not so much the form which the proceeding has taken , or the words in which the relief is claimed , as the substance of the matter and consider whether before granting the relief claimed by the citizen , it would be necessary for the Court to enquire into the question whether any of his specified fundamental rights have been contravened . If any relief can not be granted to the citizen without determining the question of the alleged infringement of the said specified 'fundamental rights , that is a proceeding which falls under article 359 ( 1 ) and would , therefore , be hit by the Presidential Order issued under the said Article . The sweep , of article 359 ( 1 ) and the Presidential Order issued under it is thus wide enough to include all claims made by citizens in any court of competent jurisdiction when it is shown that the said claims can not be effectively adjudicated upon without examining the question as to whether the citizen is in substance , seeking to enforce any of the 818 said specified fundamental rights . We have already seen that the operation of article 359 ( 1 ) and the Presidential Order issued under it is limited to the period during which the proclamation of emergency is in force , or for such shorter period as may be specified in the Order . That being so , we feel no difficulty in holding that proceedings taken by a citizen either under article 32 ( 1 ) or under article 226 ( 1 ) are hit by article 359 ( 1 ) and the Presidential Order issued under it . In this connection it would be legitimate to add that the contention of the appellants which seeks to confine the operation of article 359 ( 1 ) only to the right to move the Supreme Court , would make the said provision almost meaningless . There would be no point in preventing the citizen from moving this Court , while leaving it open to him to move the High Courts for the same relief and then to come to this Court in appeal , if necessary . That takes us to the question as to whether proceedings taken by a citizen under section 491 (