or under any rule or order made thereunder . The condition is that the person should have been deprived of a right under the 868 Defence of India Ordinance or under any rule or order made thereunder . If a person was deprived of such a right not under the Ordinance or a rule or order made thereunder , his right would not be suspended . If the order was made in excess of the power conferred upon the Government by the said Ordinance , it would not be covered by that order . If the detention was made mala fide , it would equally be not an order made under the Ordinance . My view on the basis of the aforesaid discussion may be stated thus : ( 1 ) The detenus can not exercise their right to enforce their fundamental rights under articles 21 , 22 and 14 of the Constitution , during the period for which the said right was suspended by the President 's order . ( 2 ) This does not preclude the High Court to release the detenus in exercise of its power under section 491 of the Code of Criminal Procedure , if they were imprisoned under a void law , though the voidness of the law arose out of infringement of their fundamental rights under articles 14 , 21 and 22 of the Constitution . ( 3 ) The President 's order does not preclude , even under article 32 ( 1 ) and article 226 of the Constitution , the petitioners from proving that the orders of detention were not made under the Defence of India Ordinance or the Act either because they were made , ( i ) outside the provisions of the Ordinance of the Act , or ( ii ) in excess of the power conferred under them , or ( iii ) the detention were made mala fide or due to a fraudulent exercise of power . I would close with a few observations . In the view I have taken . there are three courses open to Parliament : either it can make a valid law without infringing the fundamental rights other than those enshrined in article 19 or amend section 491 of the Code in order to maintain the enforcement of void laws , or do both . It is not for me to suggest the right course . In the result , the petitions will now go to the Constitution Bench for disposal on the said questions . ORDER BY COURT In accordance with the opinion of the majority the constitutional points raised in the Appeals are dismissed . Appeals to be set down individually before a Constitution Bench for dealing with the other contentions raised in each one of them .