as may be mentioned in the order and all proceedings pending in any court for the enforcement of the rights so mentioned shall remain suspended for the period during which the Proclamation is in force or for such shorter period a may be specified in the order . 812 ( 2 ) Any order made as aforsesaid may extend to the whole or any part of the territory of India. '' It would be noticed that as soon as a Proclamation of Emergency has been issued under article 352 and so long as it lasts , article 19 is suspended and the power of the legis latures as well as the executive is to that extent made wider . The suspension of article 19 during the pendency of the Proclamation of emergency removes the fetters created on the legislative and executive powers by article 19 and if the legislatures make laws or the executive commits acts which are inconsistent with the rights guaranteed by article 19 , their validity is not open to challenge either during the 'continuance of the emergency or even thereafter . As soon as the Proclamation ceases to operate , the legislative enactments passed and the executive actions taken during the course of the said emergency shall be inoperative to the extent to which they conflict with the rights guaranteed under article 19 because as soon as the emergency is lifted , article 19 which was suspended during the emergency is automatically revived and begins to operate . Article 358 , however , makes it clear that things done or omitted to be done during the emergency can not be challenged even after the emergency is over In other words , the suspension of article 19 is complete during the period in question and legislative and executive action which contravenes article 19 can not be questioned even after the emergency is over . Article 359 , on the other hand , does not purport expressly to suspend any of the fundamental rights . It authorises the President to issue an order declaring that the right to move any court for enforcement of such of the rights in Part III as may be mentioned in the order and all proceedings pending in any court for the enforcement of the rights so mentioned shall remain suspended for the period during which the Proclamation is in force or for such shorter period as may be specified in the order . What the Presidential Order purports to do by virtue of the power conferred on 'the President by article 359 ( 1 ) is to bar the remedy of the citizens to move any court for the enforcement of the specified rights . The rights are not expressly suspended , but the citizen is deprived of his right to move any court for their enforcement . That is one important 813 distinction between the provisions of article 358 and article 359 ( 1 ) . Before proceeding further , we may at this stage , in parenthesis , observe that there has been some argument before us on the question as to whether the fundamental rights specified in the Presidential Order issued under article 359 are even theoretically alive during the period specified in the said Order . The learned Attorney General has contended that the suspension of the citizens ' right to move any court for the enforcement of the said rights , in law , amounts to the suspension of the said rights themselves for the said period . We do not propose , to decide this question in the present appeals . We will assume in favour of the appellants that the said rights arc , in theory , alive and it is on that assumption that we 'will deal with the other points raised in the present appeals . The other distinction lies in the fact that the suspension of article 19 for which article 358 provides continues so long as the Proclamation of Emergency is in operation , whereas the suspension of the right to move any court which the Presidential Order under article 359 ( 1 ) brings about can last either for the period of the Proclamation or for a shorter period if so specified by the Order . It would be noticed that the Presidential Order can not widen the authority of the legislatures or the executive ; it merely suspends the rights to move any court to obtain a relief on the ground that the rights conferred by Part III have been contravened if the said rights are specified in the Order . The inevitable consequence of this position is that as soon as the Order ceases to be operative , the infringement of the rights made either by the legislative enactment or by executive action can perhaps be challenged by , a citizen in a court of law and the same may have to be tried on the merits on the basis that the rights alleged to have been infringed were in operation even during the pendency of the Presidential Order . If at the expiration .of the Presidential Order , Parliament passes any legislation to protect executive action taken during the pendency , of the Presidential Order and afford indemnity to the executive in that behalf , the validity and the effect of such legislative action may have to be carefully scrutinised . 814 Since the object of article 359 ( 1 ) is to suspend the rights of the citizens to move any court , the consequence of the Presidential Order may be that any proceeding which may be pending at the date of the Order remains suspended during the time that the Order is in operation and may be revived when the said Order ceases to be operative ; and fresh proceedings can not be taken by a citizen after the Order has been issued , because the Order takes away the right to move any court