law and in statutes . They have never been used in the sense now imputed to them . '' These observations by the dissenting Lord may at the most indicate that the majority in fact put a strained cons truction on the express words used in the regulation ; but they do not show that they have laid down any such rule of construction . This is made clear by Lord Macmillan when he stated : `` In the first place , it is important to have in mind that the regulation in question is a war measure . This is not to say that the courts ought to adopt in wartime canons of construction different from those Which they follow in peace time . The fact that the nation is at war is no Justification for any relaxation of the vigilance of the courts in seeing that the law is duly observed , . especially in a matter so fundamental as the liberty of the subject matter the contrary . But in a time of emergency when the life of the whole nation is at stake it may well be that a regulation for the defence of the realm may quite properly have a meaning which because of its drastic invasion of the liberty of the subject the courts would be slow to attribute to a peace time measure . The purpose of the regulation is to ensure public safety , and it is right so to interpret emergency legislation as to promote rather than to defeat its efficacy for the defence of the realm . That is in accordance with a general rule applicable to the interpretation of 857 all statutes or statutory regulations in peace time as well as in war time. '' These observations should be understood in the background of the earlier observation : `` I do not agree that the critical phrase in the context in which I find it is susceptible only of one meaning , namely that for which the appellant contends . Were it so it would be strange that several learned judges should have found it to possess quite a different meaning . '' This judgment , therefore , is no authority for the position for which it is relied upon . The decision in substance says that the rule of construction of a statute is the same both in peace time and in war time and that when there is an ambiguity in the expressions used , the court may give such meaning to the words used which are capable of bearing that meaning as would promote rather than defeat the object of the legislation . Indeed , the Privy Council , in Nakkuda Ali vs Jayaratna ( 1 ) , confined the interpretation put upon reg . 18B of the Defence ( General ) Regulations , 1939 , by a majority of the House of Lords to the particular cricumstances of that case and they did not accept that construction when similar words were used in the Regulation 62 of the Defence ( Control of Textiles ) Regulations , 1945 . I can not , therefore , hold that the said decisions suggested a new rule of construction peculiar to war measures . The rules of construction are the same in war time as well as in peace time . The fundamental rule of construction is that the courts have to find out the expressed intention of the Legislature from the words of the enactment itself . Where the language is unambiguous , no more is necessary than to expound those words in their natural and ordinary sense . But where the words are ambiguous and reasonably capable of bearing two meanings , the court may be justified in adopting that meaning which would further the intention of the Legislature rather than that which would defeat it . In the present case we are not dealing with a war measure , but a constitutional provision which was designed to govern the affairs of our country for all times so ( 1 ) L.R . 1 55 2 S C India/64 . 858 long the Constitution remains in force ; and it can not certainly be strained to meet a passing phase in a country 's life . A strained construction put upon a statutory provison to meet a particular emergency may be rectified by a subsequent enactment . But such a construction put upon a constitutional provision might entail serious consequences . Even if Liversidge 's case ( 1 ) had laid down a new rule of construction , that construction can not be invoked in the case of a constitutional provision . In Gibbons vs Ogden ( 2 ) the following rule of construction of a constitutional provision is stated : `` That which the words declare is the meaning of an instrument ; and neither Courts nor legislatures have the right to add or to take away from that meaning . This is true of every instrument , but when we arc speaking of the most solemn and deliberate of all human writings those which ordain the fundamental law of states , the rule rises to a very high degree of significance . It must ' be very plain , nay absolutely certain , that the people did not intend what the language they have employed in its natural signifi cation , imports , before a Court will feel itself at liberty to depart from the plain reading of a constitutional pro vision. '' No doubt a constitution should receive a fair , liberal and progressive construction so that the true objects of the instrument may be promoted ; but such a construction could not do violence to the natural meaning of the words used in particular provision of the Constitution . The relevant provisions of section 491 of the Code read ( 1 ) Any High Court may , whenever it thinks fit , direct