suggestion made by the learned Attorney General that if two reasonable constructions are possible , we should adopt that which is in favour of the grant of power to the President and not in favour of the citizens fundamental rights . He has relied on the minority speech of Lord Atkin in the case of Liversidge ( 3 ) and has argued that the view taken by Lord Atkin should be preferred to the majority view which the House of Lords adopted in that case . `` In this country '' , observed Lord Atkin , `` amid the clash of arms , the laws are not silent . They maybe changed , but they speak the same language in war as in peace . It has always been one of the pillars of freedom , one of the principles of liberty for which on recent authority we are now fighting , that the judges are no respecters of persons and stand between ( 1 ) ; , 270 . ( 3 ) ; ( 2 ) , 63 . 52 2 section C. lndia/64 810 the subject and any attempted encroachments on his liberty by the executive , alert to see that any coercive action is justified in law . In this case , I have listened to arguments which might have been addressed acceptably to the Court of King 's Bench in the time of Charles I . '' Realising that he was in a minority , Lord Atkin added that he protested , even if he did it alone , against a strained construction put on words with the effect of giving ail uncontrolled power of imprisonment to the Minister . In this connection , Mr. Setalvad referred to two subsequent decisions of the Privy Council in which the view taken by Lord Atkin has been accepted , vide Nakkuda Ali vs M. F. De section layaratne ( 1 ) , and King Emperor vs Vimalabai Deshpande ( 2 ) . In the former case , Lord Radcliffe observed that indeed , it would be a very unfortunate thing if the decision of Liversidge 's case came to be regarded as laying down any general rule as to the construction of such phrases when they appear in statutory enactments , and he added that the said decision is an authority for the proposition that the words `` if A . B. has reasonable cause to believe '' are capable of meaning `` if A . B. honestly thinks that he has reasonable cause to believe '' and that in the context and attendant circumstances of Defence Regulation 18B they did in fact mean just that . In distinguishing the said decision , Lord Radcliffe made the somewhat significant comment that the elaborate consideration which the majority of the House gave to the context and circumstances before adopting that construction itself shows that there is no general principle that such words are to be so understood . Mr. Setalvad has also invited our attention to the fact that the majority decision of the House of Lords in Liversidge ( 3 ) has not received the approval from jurists , ( vide Maxwell on Interpretation of Statutes p. 276 , footnote 54 , Craies on Statue Law p. 309 , and Friedmann , Law in a Changing Society p . 37 . ) Like the Attorney General , Mr. Setalvad also urged that the stage to choose between two rival constructions would not arise in the present appeals because , according to him , the construction for which he contended was the only reasonable construction of article 359 . ( 1 ) , 76 . ( 2 ) 73 I.A . 144 . ( 3 ) ; 811 In our opinion , it is unnecessary to decide the merits of the rival contentions urged before us in regard to the rule of construction and the approach which the Court should adopt in construing article 359 . It is common ground that the question of approach would become relevant and material only if we are satisfied that article 359 is reasonably capable of two alternative constructions . As we will presently point out , after hearing counsel on both sides , we have reached the conclusion that article 359 is reasonably , capable of only one construction and that is the construction which has been put on it by the Punjab and Bombay High Courts . That is why we are relieved of the task of dealing with the merits of the controversy between the parties on this point . Let us then revert to the question of construing article 359 . In doing so , it may be relevant and somewhat useful to compare and contrast the provisions of Articles 358 and 359 . Indeed , both Mr. Setalvad and the learned Attorney General contended that article 359 should be interpreted in the light of the background supplied by the comparative examination of the respective provisions contained in articles 358 and 359 ( 1 ) & ( 2 ) . The said two Articles read as under : `` 358 . While a Proclamation of Emergency is in operation , nothing in article 19 shall restrict the power of the State as defined in Part III to make any law or to take any executive action which the State would but for the provisions contained in that Part be competent to make or to take , but any law so made shall , to the extent of the competency , cease to have effect as soon as the Proclamation ceases to operate , except as respects things done or omitted to be done before the law so ceases to have effect 359 ( 1 ) Where a Proclamation of Emergency is in operation , the President may by order declare that the right to move any Court for the enforcement of such of the rights conferred by Part III