in any other law for the time being in force , ( i ) the apprehension and detention in custody of any person whom the authority empowered by the rules to apprehend or detain ( the authority empowered to detain not being lower in rank than that of a District Magistrate ) suspects , on grounds appearing to that authority to be reasonable , of being of hostile origin or of having acted , acting , being about to act or being likely to act in a manner prejudical to the defence of India and civil defence , the security of the State , the public safety or interest , the maintenance of public order , India 's relations with foreign States , the maintenance of peaceful conditions in any part or area of India or the efficient conduct of military operations , or with respect to whom that authority is satisfied that his apprehension and detention are necessary for the purpose of preventing him from acting in any such prejudicial manner , * * * * Rule 30 . ( 1 ) The Central Government or the State Government , if it is satisfied with respect to any particular person that with a view to preventing him from 843 acting in any manner prejudicial to the defence of India and civil defence , the public safety , the maintenance of public order , India 's relations with foreign powers , the maintenance of peaceful conditions in any part of India , the efficient conduct of military operations or the maintenance of supplies and services essential to the life of the community , it is necessary so to do , may , make an order * * * * ( b ) directing that he be detained . Rule30A . ( 2 ) Every detention order shall be reviewedin accordance with the provisions hereinafter contained . ( 3 ) A detention order made by the Central Government Or the State Government or the Administrator shall be reviewed by the Central Government or the State Government or the Administrator , as the case may be . ( 4 ) A detention order made by an officer ( who shall in no case be lower in rank than that of a District Magistrate ) empowered by the State Government or the Administrator shall be reviewed : ( a ) in the case of an order made by an officer empowered by the State Government , by a reviewing authority consisting of any such two officers from among the following officers of that Government , that is to say , the Chief Secretary , a mem ber of the Board of Revenue , a Financial Commissioner and a Commissioner of a Division , as may be specified by that Government by notification in the Official Gazette ; ( b ) in the case of an order made by an officer empowered by the Administrator , by the Administrator himself . Under the said provisions the Central Government or the State Government or an officer on whom the power to detain is delegated can direct the detention of any person if the detaining authority is satisfied that his detention is necessary for one or other of the reasons mentioned in r. 30 . No grounds of detention need be served upon the detenu ; no opportunity need be given to him to make representations or establish his innocence . The period of detention can be indefinite . The Central Government or the 844 State Government or the Administrator of a Union Territory , as the case may be , is authorised to review the order of detention made by them . So too , a detention order made by an officer empowered by the State Government in that behalf can be reviewed by one or other of the officers mentioned in r. 30A ( 4 ) It is contended that the said provisions infringe article 22 ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) of the Constitution and , therefore , void . This Court in Deepchand vs The State of Uttar Pradesh ( 1 ) laid down the effect of a law made in infringement of fundamental rights ; and observed : `` The result of the aforesaid discussion may be summarized in the following propositions ; ( i ) whether the Constitution affirmatively confers powers on the legislature to make laws subject wise or negatively prohibits it from infringing any fundamental right , they represent only , two aspects of want of legislative power ; ( ii ) the Constitution in express terms makes the power of a legislature to make laws in regard to the entries in the Lists of the Seventh Schedule subject to the other provisions of the Constituion and thereby circumscribes or reduces the said power by the limitations laid down in Part III of the Constitution ; ( iii ) it follows from the premises that a law made in derogation or in excess of that power would be ab initio void wholly or to the extent of the contravention , as the case may be ; . . . . `` This view was accepted by a later decision of this Court in Mahandra Lal vs State of U.P. ( 2 ) . It is , therefore , manifest that if the Act and the rules framed thereunder infringed the provisions of article 22 ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) of the Constitution , they would be ab initio void they would be stillborn law and any detention made thereunder would be an illegal detention . Articles 21 and 22 enshrine fundamental rights relating to personal liberty , . Clauses ( 4 ) to ( 6 ) of article 22 specifically deal with preventive detention . This Court has held in A. K . Gopalan vs State of Madras ( 3 ) that the word '. , law '' in article 21 means State made law