the challengein question would have attracted the provisions ofArt . 359 ( 1 ) and the Order or not . We are referringto this matter only for the purpose of showing thatthe Parliament may have thought that the executive would not be able to detain citizens reasonably suspected of prejudicial activities by taking recourse to the of 1950 , and that may be the genesis of the impugned Act . If that 836 be so , it would not be permissible to suggest that in passing the Act , Parliament was acting malafide . It is quite true that if the Act has contravened the citizens ' fundamental rights under articles 14 and 22 , it would be void and the detentions effected under the relevant provisions of the said Act would be equally inoperative ; but it must be remembered that it is precisely in this set of circumstances that article 359 ( 1 ) and the Presidential Order issued under it step in and preclude the citizen from enforcing his fundamental rights in any court . The said Article as well as the Presidential Order issued under it indicate that there may be cases in which the specified fundamental rights of citizens have been contravened by executive action and the impugned executive action may be invalid on that account . That is precisely why the said Article and the Presidential Order impose a ban against the investigation of the merits of the challenge during the period prescribed by the Order . Therefore , the alternative argument urged in support of the plea that the impugned provisions of the Act amount to a colourable piece of legislation fails . Mr. Parulekar who argued his own case before us with remarkable ability , contended that a detenu can not be prevented from disputing the validity of the Ordinance , Act and the Rules under the Presidential Order if he did not ask for any consequential relief . His argument was that the prayer made in his petition under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) consists of two parts ; the first prayer is to declare that the impugned Act and the Order are invalid , and the second prayer is that his detention should be held to be illegal and his release should accordingly be ordered . The first prayer , says Mr. Parulekar , can not fall within the mischief of the Order because he is not enforcing any of his rights when he asks merely for a declaration that the law is invalid , and he suggested that even if we take the view that he is precluded from challenging the validity of his detention by virtue of the said Order , we should not preclude him from challenging the validity of the law merely with a view to obtain a declaration in that behalf . In our opinion , this argument can not be accepted . What section 359 ( 1 ) purports to do is to empower the President to make an Order by which the right of the detenue to move the Court 437 to challenge the validity of his detention on the ground that any of his fundamental rights specified in the Order have been contravened , is suspended , and so , it would be unreasonable to suggest that what the detenu can not do in order to secure his release , he should be allowed to do merely for the purpose of obtaining an academic declaration . A proceeding taken under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) like a petition filed under article 226 ( 1 ) or article 32 ( 1 ) is intended to obtain relief , and the relief in such cases means the order for the release of the detenu . If the detenu is prohibited from asking for an order of release on the ground that the challenge to the validity of his order of detention can not be made during the pendency of the Presidential Order , we do not see how it would be open to the same detenu to claim a mere declaration either under s.491 , Cr . P.C . or article 226 ( 1 ) or article 32 ( 1 ) of the Constitution . We do not think that it was open to the High Court to consider the validity of the impugned Act without relation to the prayer made by the detenu in his petition . The proceedings commenced by the detenu by means of his petition under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) constitute one proceeding and if the sole relief which the detenu seeks to obtain can not be claimed by him by virtue of the Presidential Order , it would be unreasonable to hold that he can claim a different relief , VI Z. , a mere declaration ; such a relief is clearly outside the purview of the proceedings under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) and articles 226 ( 1 ) and 32 ( 1 ) . During the course of the hearing of these appeals , it has been strenuously pressed before us by Mr. Setalvad that the emergency created by the Chinese act of aggression may last long and in consequence , the citizens would be precluded from enforcing their fundamental rights specified in the Presidential Order during the period that the Order is in operation . That , however , has no material bearing on the points with which we are concerned . How long the Proclamation of Emergency should continue and what restrictions should be imposed on the fundamental rights of citizens during the pendency of the emergency , are matters which must inevitably be left to the executive because the executive knows the requirements of the situation and the effect of compulsive factors which operate during periods of grave crisis , such as our country is facing 838 today . As Lord