1 ) ( b ) are affected by article 359 ( 1 ) and the Presidential Order issued under it . Section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) , inter alia , provides that any High Court may , whenever it thinks fit , direct that a person illegally or improperly detained in public custody be set at liberty . It has been strenuously urged before us that the proceedings for obtaining directions of the nature of habeas corpus which are taken under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) are outside article 359 ( 1 ) , and so , the Presidential Order can not create a bar against a citizen asking the High Court to issue a writ in the nature of habeas corpus under the said provision . It is necessary to examine this argument very carefully . It is well known that after section 491 was enacted in the Code of Criminal Procedure in the present form in 1923 , the right to obtain a direction in the nature of a habeas corpus became a statutory right in India . After 1923 , it was not open to any party to ask for a writ of habeas corpus as a matter of common law . This question was elaborately considered by Rankin , C. J. , in Girindra Nath Banerjee vs Birendra Nath Pal ( 1 ) , where the learned C.J . considered the history of the development of the law on this point and came to the conclusion that the relief of a writ in the nature of a habeas corpus could be claimed ( 1 ) I.L.R . 819 after 1923 solely under Cr . P. C. The same view was taken by a full Bench of the Madras High Court in District Magistrate , Trivandrum vs K. C. Mammen Mappillal ( 1 ) , where the said High Court held that it had no power to issue a writ of habeas corpus as known to the English Common Law . Its powers are confined in that respect to those conferred by section 491 of the Code of Criminal Procedure which gives authority to issue directions of the nature of habeas corpus . When this point was raised before the Privy Council in Matthen vs District Magistrate of Trivandrum ( 2 ) , their Lordships observed that the reasoning of Rankin C.J . in the case of Girindra Nath Banerjee ( 3 ) was so clear and convincing that they were content to adopt it , as also to state that they were in entire agreement with the views expressed by him . The same view was expressed by the Privy Council in King Emperor vs Sibnath Banerji ( 4 ) . Basing himself on these decisions , Mr. Setalvad contends that the statutory right to obtain relief under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) is a right which is separate and distinct from the Constitutional right guaranteed by the relevant Articles of the Constitution , and so , article 359 ( 1 ) can not be said to apply to the proceedings under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) . In support of the same contention , Mr. Setalvad has also pressed into service the provisions of article 372 by which the existing laws are continued and he has invited our attention to the provisions of article 225 and 375 to show that the jurisdiction conferred on the High Courts by section 491 Cr . P. C. continues unless it is expressly taken away by a competent piece of legislation . In this connection , reliance has also been placed on the fact that in the past whenever the operation of section 491 was intended to be suspended , the legislature made a specific provision in that behalf and as an illustration , reference is made to section 10 of the Restriction and Detention Ordinance , 1944 ( No , III of 1944 ) . Section 10 specifically refers to section 491 of the Code and provides that no Court shall have power to make any order under the said section in respect of any order made under or having , effect under the Ordinance , or in respect of any person the subject of such an order . It is urged that the Presidential Order is con ( 1 ) I.L.R . 66 I.A . 222 . ( 3 ) I.L.R . :54 Cal , 727 . ( 4 ) 72 I.A . 241 . 820 fined only to proceedings taken for enforcement of consti tutional rights and if it was intended that the proceedings under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) should also be prohibited , it was essen tial that the said provision should , in terms , have been suspended by a competent piece of legislation . Mr. Setalvad has also emphasised the fact that the approach in dealing with a proceeding under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) is different from the approach which the courts adopt in dealing with proceedings under article 226 or article 32 . In invoking the Jurisdiction of the High Courts under article 226 ( 1 ) , or that of the Supreme Court under article 32 ( 1 ) , the Courts always enquire whether the party concerned is aggrieved by the order against which complaint is made . Under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) , however , the court can take action suo motu and that brings out the difference in the character of the two respective categories of proceedings . That , broadly stated , is the manner in which Mr. Setalvad has raised his contention that proceedings under section 491 ( 1 ) ( b ) are outside the purview of the Presidential Order and do not fall within the mischief of article 359 ( 1 ) . There is no doubt that the right