manner prescribed by the Constitution . Despite article 358 it may happen that void laws are made and executive actions are taken inadvertently or otherwise ; and article 359 is really intended to put off the enforcement of the rights of the people affected by those laws and actions till the expiry of the President 's order . The invalidity of the argument would be clear if it was borne in mind that article 358 also saved executive acts infringing article 19 , but nonetheless article 359 gave protection against the exercise of the right to move any court in respect of such acts not saved by article 358 . If the infringement of fundamental rights by executive action not saved by article 358 could not be a basis for the exercise of a right to move during the period of suspension , 866 by the same token , laws not saved by article 358 could not equally be the basis for such an action during the said . period . Be it as it may , the phraseology of article 359 is wide enough to comprehend laws made in violation of the specified fundamental rights . Another argument advanced is , while article 358 read with article 13 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) , maintained the constitutional position that all laws infringing fundamental rights other than that enshrined in article 19 would be void during the emergency , the President by issuing the order he did , indirectly , in effect and substance , validated the laws infringing Arts.14 , 21 and 22 , and , therefore , the issuing of the said order must be held to be a fraud on hi s powers . This argument has no merits . It is based upon a misapprehension of the doctrine of fraud on powers . In the context of the application of the doctrine to a statutory law , this Court observed in Gullapally Nageswara Rao vs Andhra Pradesh Road Transport Corporation ( 1 ) thus : `` The legislature can only make laws within its legislative competence . Its legislative field may be circumscribed by specific legislative entries or limited by fundamental rights created by the Constitution . The legislature can not overstep the field of its competency , directly or indirectly . The Court will scrutinize the law to ascertain whether the legislature by device purports to make a law which , though in form appears to be within its sphere , in effect and substance , reaches beyond it . If , in fact it has power to make the law , its motives in making the law are irrelevant. '' To the same effect are the observations in Gajapati Narayan Deo vs The State of Orissa ( 2 ) . On the same analogy , the President can not overstep the limits of his power defined under article 359 of the Constitution . So long as he does not exceed his power , the effect of his order made within bounds could not conceivably sustain the plea of fraud on powers . Fraud on power implies that a power not conferred is exercised under the cloak of a power conferred . But if an act can legitimately be referred to a power conferred the intention of the person exercising ( 1 ) [ 1959 ] Supp . 1 S.C.R . 319 , 329 . ( 2 ) ; 867 the power or the effect of his exercise of the power is ir relevant . Now , on the construction placed by me on article 359 , the President has clearly the constitutional power ' to suspend the aforesaid right . The fact that Parliament by taking shelter under that order may enforce void laws can not make a valid exercise of a power of the President one in fraud of his power . The next argument is that the order issued by the President is in excess of the powers conferred under article 359 of the Constitution . Under article 359 , the argument proceeds , the order made by the President can relate to a period or the whole or a part of the territory of India and can not be confined to a class of persons . As the order is restricted to persons that have . been deprived of their rights under the Defence of India Ordinance , it is said that it is not sanctioned by the provisions of article 359 . There are no merits in this contention . Under the order the right to move for the enforcement of the rights mentioned therein is suspended during the period of emergency and it applies to the entire country . The fact that only persons , who are deprived of their rights under the Defence of India Ordinance , can not exercise their right to move the Court does not make the order one confined to a class of persons . The Ordinance has force throughout India and ex hypothesis only persons affected would move the Court . That does not mean that the order is confined only to a class of persons . The next contention is that the impugned section suffers from the vice of excessive delegation and that in any view the relevant rules framed are in excess of the power conferred upon the Government by the said Act . I can not agree with either of the two contentions . On this aspect I have nothing more to add to that found in the judgment of my learned brother . But the order made by the President still leaves the door open for deciding some , questions even under article 32 or article 226 of the Constitution . The order is a conditional one . , In effect it says that the right remains suspended if such person has been deprived of any such right under the Defence of India Ordinance , 1962 ,