other court or courts constituted by Parliament by law in the manner prescribed i.e. , by one or other of the procedural writs or directions or orders described thereunder . With this background let me have a close look at the provisions of article 359 . The expressions used in article 359 are clear and unambiguous . Three expressions stand out in bold relief , namely , ( i ) `` right to move '' , ( ii ) `` any Court '' , and ( iii ) `` for the enforcement of such of the rights conferred by Part III '' . `` Any Court '' implies more 852 than one court , but it can not obviously be any court in India , for it must be a court where a person has a right to move for the enforcement of the fundamental rights . It can , therefore , be only the Supreme Court , High Court or the courts or courts constituted by Parliament under article 32 ( 3 ) . If the contention of learned counsel for the appellants be accepted , the expression `` court '' should be confined to the Supreme Court . But the Article does .not say either Supreme Court or that the right to move is the guaranteed one under article 32 ( 1 ) . The next question is , what do the words `` right to move '' mean ? The right to move is qualified by the expression `` for the enforcement of such of the rights conferred by Part 111 '' . Therefore , the right to move must be a right to move the Supreme Court or the High Court in the manner prescribed by article 32 ( 2 ) or article 226 ( 1 ) of the Constitution for the enforcement of the fundamental rights . The words in the second limb of the Article viz. , that `` all proceeding.s pending in any court for the enforcement of the rights so mentioned shall remain suspended '' only relate to the proceedings instituted in exercise of the said right : they do not throw any light on the scope of the `` right to move ' . This construction gives full meaning to every expression used in the Article . if so construed , it can only mean that the temporary bar that can be imposed by an order of the President is not confined only to the guaranteed right of a person to move the Supreme Court for the enforcement of his fundamental rights , but also extends to the right of a person to move the High Court or the Court or Courts constituted by Parliament for the enforcement of such of the fundamental rights as mentioned in the order . I would , therefore , hold that the President 's order under article 359 suspending the right to move any court in respect of specified fundamental rights includes not only the right to move under article 32 but also that under article 226 . The more difficult question is whether article 359 can be so construed as to empower the President to suspend all actions which a person may take under a statute or common law , if he seeks thereby to protect his liberty against unlawful encroachment by State or its officers . To put it in other words , can a person , who is illegally 853 detained under a void law , approach the High Court under section 491 of the Code or file a suit in a civil court for damages for illegal confinement or take any other legal proceedings open to him ? Learned Attorney General contends that `` any court '' in article 359 means any court in India and that the expression `` enforcement of fundamental rights '' implies any relief asked for by a party if the granting of such relief involves directly or indirectly a decision on the question whether any of the fundamental rights specified in the President 's order has been infringed . This argument , if I may say so , completely ignores the scheme of the Constitution . Under the Constitution , a person may have three kinds of rights , namely , ( i ) fundamental rights , ( ii ) constitutional rights , and ( iii ) statutory or common law rights . Under article 32 ( 1 ) a person has a fundamental right to move the Supreme Court for enforcement of his fundamental rights ; under article 226 , a person has a constitutional right to move the High Court for the enforcement of the said rights . Parliament , by law , in exercise of its powers conferred on it under article 245 , may confer a right on a person to move any court for a relief wider in scope than that provided by article 32 or article 226 of the Constitution . Though Parliament may not have power , except in the cases specified to circumscribe the fundamental rights enshrined in Part III it can certainly make a law enlarging the content of the substantive and procedural rights of parties beyond those conferred by Part III . Under this category there may also be laws made by competent authority before the commencement of the Constitution , but continued under article 372 , which do not any way infringe the fundamental rights created by the Constitution . Section 491 of the Code is one of the pre Constitution statutory provisions continued under article 372 of the Constitution . It does not in terms posit any right to move the High Court for the enforcement of fundamental rights . Therefore , the argument of the learned Attorney General involves considerable strain on the express language of article 359 , for , he in effect asks us to equate the expression `` a right to move for the enforcement of fundamental rights '' with