had the right to carry on cultivation with the aid of sewage . The assessee derived from this land various kinds of income , some being purely agricultural and some , non agricultural . For the assessment year 1942 43 , the total agricultural income was computed at Rs . 99,987 9 6 , and non agricultural income , at Rs . 12,503 8 0 . Agricultural income tax was charged by the State of Bengal under the Agricultural Income 602 tax Act , on the agricultural income less expenses . For the assessment years , 1943 44 , 1944 45 , 1945 46 and 1946 47 , the assessments were made along similar lines . In 1947 , the Income tax Officer reassessed the income for the assessment year , 1942 43 after reopening the assessment under section 34 of the Income tax Act on the ground that the so called agricultural income had escaped assessment to income tax under the Indian Income tax Act . Assessments for the other years , 1943 44 , 1944 45 , 1945 46 and 1946 47 were also reopened , and the income in those years wag also similarly reassessed . The assessee appealed to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner against all these orders of the Income tax Officer , but his appeals failed . Against the orders of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner , appeals were filed before the Income tax Appellate Tribunal ( Calcutta Bench ) . The Tribunal dealt with the assessment for 1942 43 separately , and allowed the appeal as regards assessment for that year . It held that the reassessment was improper under section 34 of the Income tax Act , because the Income tax Officer had not proceeded on any definite information but in the course of a `` roving enquiry '' . The Tribunal also held that the income was exempt from taxation to income tax under section 4 ( 3 ) ( viii ) of the Act , inasmuch as this income was derived from land used for agricultural purposes , which continued to be assessed to land revenue . In the appeals arising out of assessments for the subsequent years , a common order was passed by the Tribunal , remanding the appeals to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner for a rehearing . The Tribunal stated that the appellants had filed a number of documents to establish that land revenue was assessed on the land which , the Department contended , proved the contrary . The Tribunal felt that the matter should be reconsidered by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner , and hence remanded the cases . The Appellate Assistant Commissioner in the rehearing held that the land in question continued subject to land revenue , and that the lump sum payment was merely payment of revenue in advance . He accordingly allowed the appeals , and ordered exclusion of the income 603 from the assessments for the four years in question . On appeal by the Department , the Tribunal changed its opinion , and came to the conclusion that the ' payment of a lump sum was not a payment in advance of the land revenue due from year to year but was land revenue capitalised . It referred to the deed by which the proprietorship in the land was ves ted in the Corporation by the Secretary of State , and stated that by the document and the capitalisation of land revenue , the demand for land revenue was extinguished for ever . It accordingly allowed the appeals , and restored the orders of assessment made by the Income tax Officer . The assessee next moved the Tribunal for a reference setting out a number of questions which , he contended , arose out of the Tribunal 's order . The Tribunal referred the following question of law for the opinion of the High Court : `` Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of this case the Tribunal 's conclusion that the land was not assessed to land revenue within the meaning of section 2 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Indian Income tax Act is justified ? '' The reference was heard by Chakravarti , C. J. , and Sarkar , J. , ( as he then was ) . In an elaborate judgment , the learned Chief Justice upheld the conclusions of the Tribunal , and answered the question in the affirmative . Sarkar , J. , in an equally elaborate order expressed his doubts about the correctness of the Chief Justice 's reasons , but declined to disagree with him . The question that arises in this case , as we have stated in the opening of this judgment , is a very short one . It is an admitted fact that by payment of ' a lump sum the liability to pay land revenue was redeemed and no land revenue was de manded or was ever demandable from the Justices or their assigns in perpetuity . The contention of the assessee is that this redemption saved the Justices from the liability for payment but did not affect the assessability of the land to revenue under Regulation I of 1793 . Unless , it is contended , . there was a cancellation of the assessment , a , % is to be found in the 604 Land Tax and Tithe Redemption Acts in England , the liability must be deemed % to continue and land would still be assessed to land revenue for purposes of section 2 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Indian Income tax Act . That section reads as follows : `` 2 ( 1 ) 'Agricultural income ' means ( a ) any rent or revenue derived from land which is used for agricultural purposes , and is either assessed to land revenue in ( the taxable territories ) or subject to a local rate assessed and collected by Officers