as , in fact , it did . There could have been no redemption of the liability by a down payment if no land revenue could have been demanded . The fact that the recurring liability was redeemed by a lump sum payment itself shows that in the view of Government as well as of the Justices , the 'Square Mile ' was still subject to the recurring demand and was thus still assessed to land revenue . It is , therefore , not profitable to investigate the effect of acquisition on the continued liability of the land to land revenue between the time there was acquisition and the vesting of the land in the Justices . For the above reason , we need not examine at 607 length the case in Lord Colchester vs Kewnoy where the acquisition by the Crown was held not to make , the area acquired immune from land tax , because the burden of the tax would then have fallen upon the remaining land situated in the unit from which it was acquired and on which unit a quota of the land tax was chargeable . Such a position does not arise here , because the Panchannagram Estate was given abatement and a lump sum was paid to free the land acquired from the liability to land revenue . Similarly , the decision of this Court in The Collector of Bombay vs Nusserwanji Rattanji Mistri and Others ( 2 ) , where on the acquisition of some Foras lands held under Foras Land Act ( Bombay Act VI of 1851 ) the Foras tenure was declared to have come to an end and on the same lands being resold by Government as freehold , they were declared not to be subject to assessment to which they were previously subject , is not very helpful . There do not appear to be any rules prior to 1875 , which were framed under the Land Acquisition Act of 1870 ( Act X of 1870 ) and which are to be found in the Calcutta Gazette of July 7 , 1875 , p. 818 . If there were , they have not been brought to our notice . But a practice similar to the rules seems to have obtained under section XXVI of the Act of 1857 . That Act also did not contain any provision for making rules , as are to be found in the subsequent Acts for compulsory acquisition of land . In the absence of any statutory law or rules , we must take the facts to be that after acquisition the Panchannagram Estate was given abatement of land revenue , and the demand for land revenue was transferred to the land acquired and granted to the Justices . At that stage , the liability to assessment remained , and it was that liability which was redeemed by a down payment . We next consider the effect of redemption . Learned counsel for the appellant contends that redemption in this connection means that by a single payment , the liability for periodical payments is saved but the assessment on the land remains uncancelled . He has cited Wharton 's Law Lexicon to show the meaning of ( 1 ) ( 2 ) ; 608 the word `` redemption '' , which is `` commutation or the substitution of one lump payment for a succession of annual ones : e.g . See the Land Tax and the Tithe Redemption Acts and many other statutes '' . Redemption is the act of redeeming which in its ordinary meaning is equal to bringing off a charge or obligation by payment . To what extent this redemption freed the land or its holder from the obligation depends not so much upon what the obligation was before redemption as what remained of that obligation after it . Here , the payment itself was meant to be `` an immediate payment of one sum equal in value to the revenue redeemed '' ( vide the Resolution of Government dated October 17 , 1861 ) . By the down payment , the entire land revenue to be recovered from that land was redeemed . The payment was equal to the capitalised value of the land revenue . When such a payment took place , it can not be said that the assessment for land revenue remained . The land was freed from that assessment as completely as if there was no assessment . Thenceforward , the land would be classed as revenue free , in fact and in law . In The Land Law of Bengal ( Tagore Law Lectures , 1895 ) p. 81 section C. Mitra described these revenue free lands as follows : `` There is another class of revenue free lands which comes within these rules laid down in the Registration and Tenancy Acts , namely , lands of which Government has , in consideration of the payment of a capitalised sum , granted proprietary title free in perpetuity from any demand of land revenue. '' That this is what had happened here is quite apparent from the conveyance by the Secretary of State vesting the land in the Justices . It is significant that there is no mention of the payment of Rs . 7,728 13 8 , nor of the assessability of the lands to land revenue . On the other hand , the deed of conveyance merely reaffirmed the position , which existed before by stating : `` . to hold the said pieces of land , hereditaments and premises intended to be conveyed with the appurtenances except as aforesaid unto the said Justices of the Peace for the Town of Calcutta and their successors for ever free and clear and for ever discharged 609 from all Government land revenue whatever or any payment or charge in the nature thereof. '' There can be no doubt that the land revenue was for ever