Appeal No . 405 of 1957 . Appeal from the judgment and order dated May 15 , 1956 , of the Calcutta High Court in I.T.R . No . 20 of 1953. section Mitra , B. Das and section N. Mukherjee , for appellants Nos . 2 to 41 . A. N. Kripal and D. Gupta , for the respondent . November 23 . The Judgment of the Court was delivered by HIDAYATULLAH , J . The point involved in this appeal is a very short one ; but it requires a long narration of facts to reach it . The appeal is against the judgment and order of the High Court of Calcutta dated May 15 , 1956 , arising out of an Income tax Reference . By the Calcutta Municipal Act VI of 1863 , there was established a Corporation under the name of `` The Justices of the Peace for the Town of Calcutta '' . By a notification issued on November 2 , 1864 , one square mile of land forming part of the Panchannagram Estate was acquired by the Government of Bengal at the instance of the Justices . Section CXII of the Municipal Act provided that the Justices might `` agree with the owners of any land for the absolute purchase thereof . . for any other purpose whatever connected with the conservancy of the Town '' . Under section CXIII , it was provided that if there was any hindrance to acquisition by private treaty , the Government of Bengal upon the representation of the Justices would compulsorily acquire the land and vest 600 such land in the Justices on their paying compensation awarded to the proprietor . The action which was taken by the notification was under section CXIII of the Municipal Act , and the acquisition was under Act VI of 1857 , an Act for the acquisition of land for public purposes . The Panchannagram Estate was permanently settled under Regulation 1 of 1793 . After the acquisition , the proprietor of Panchannagram Estate was granted abatement of land revenue assessed on the Estate to the extent of Rs . 386 7 1 . This represented the proportionate land revenue on the land acquired . In August , 1865 , the Justices were required to pay Rs . 54,685 2 10 as compensation payable to the proprietor and to other persons holding interest in the land . Another piece of land which is described as an open level sewer , was also acquired about the same time , and separate compensation was paid for it . With the amount of conveyance charges , the total compensation thus paid by the Justices was Rs . 57,965 8 10 . On October 27,1865 , the Government called upon the Justices to pay a further sum of Rs . 7,728 13 8 . This order has not been produced in the case ; but from other correspondence , it is easy to see that the amount represented an amount capitalized at 20 years ' purchase of land revenue attributed to the area acquired , which , as has been stated above , came to Rs . 386 7 1 . This payment was made on or about January 12 , 1866 . Similarly , another amount was paid in July of the same year for redemption of the land revenue in respect of the strip of land for the open sewer . On December 5 , 1870 , a conveyance was executed by the Secretary of State in favour of the Justices of the Peace . It was there stated , inter alia : `` Whereas the Honourable the Lieutenant Governor of Bengal hath thought fit that the said land so acquired as aforesaid would be vested in the said Justices of the Peace for the Town of Calcutta a Corporation created by and authorised to hold land under the said Act No . VI of 1863 of the Council of the Lieutenant Governor of Bengal to the end and intent 601 that the said land may be held by the said Justices for a public purpose , namely , for the conservancy of the Town . . and subject in every way to the same ' Act but free and discharged from all payment of land revenue , land tax and all and every tax or imposition in the nature of revenue derivable from land payable to Government in respect thereof ; NOW THIS IN DENTURE WITNESSETH . .to hold the saidpieces of land , hereditaments and premises intended to be conveyed with the appurtenances except as aforesaid unto the said Justices of the Peace for the Town of Calcutta and their successors for ever free and clear and for ever discharged from all Government land revenue whatever or any payment or charge in the nature thereof to the end and intent that the said land may be used for a public purpose namely for the conservancy of the town upon the trusts and subject to the powers , provisions , terms and conditions contained in the said Act No . VI of 1863 of the Council of the Lieutenant Governor of Bengal and to the rules heretofore passed or hereafter to be passed by the Government of Bengal under the the said last mentioned Act ; '' . On January 23 , 1880 , a temporary lease of the land known as the 'Square Mile ' was granted by the Justices of the Peace to the predecessors in title of the appellant ( assessee ) , Srish Chandra Sen who has , since the filing of the appeal , died , leaving behind 40 legal representatives who have been shown in the cause title of the appeal . The lease was renewed for further periods , and the rent was also progressively increased . The conservancy arrangements for which the land 'was held were carried out , but , the lessee