of ( the Government ) as such '' . It is not denied that both the conditions , namely , `` used for agricultural purposes '' and `` is either assessed to land revenue or subject to a local rate . . . have to co exist . It is admitted by the Department that there is no question of subjection to a local rate assessed and collected , in this case . The income derived from the land was from its use for agricultural purposes , and the first condition is thus satisfied . The dispute centres round the point whether the land .can be said to be assessed to land revenue , in spite of the lump sum payment in 1865 . In the High Court , the matter was examined from three different points of view . The first was the effect of acquisition of the land by Government upon the continued assessability of the land to land revenue . The learned Chief Justice held that by the acquisition the assessment ceased to subsist . The second was the effect of the redemption of land revenue by the Justices by a lump sum payment . The learned Chief Justice was of opinion that it had the effect of cancelling the assessment . The last was the effect of the grant free from land revenue , about which the learned Chief Justice was of opinion that it freed the land from assessment to land revenue . Sarkar , J. , agreed as to the first , but expressed doubts about the second and third propositions . According to the learned Judge , the acceptance of a lump sum payment in lieu of recurring annual payments was more a matter of agreement than a cancellation of assessment to land revenue . The matter has been argued before us from the 605 argument about the interpretation to be placed on the , conveyance by the Secretary of State which , according to him , only freed the Justices from 'payment ' of the assessed land revenue but did not cancel the assessment . No Act of Legislature bearing upon the power of Government to accept a Iump sum payment in lieu of the annual demands for land revenue has been brought to our notice . Counsel admitted that they were unable to find any such legislative provision . We have thus to proceed , as did the High Court , without having before us the authority of a legislative enactment . The only materials to which reference was made are : an extract from the explanatory notes in the Revenue Roll of the Touzi which shows that an abatement of land revenue pro tanto was granted to the proprietor of Panchannagram Estate , and a despatch from the Secretary of State for India ( Lord Stanley ) No . 2 ( Revenue ) dated December 31 , 1858 recommending redemption of land revenue by an immediate payment of a sum of equivalent value , together with a Resolution of Government ( Home Department No . 3264 ( Rev ) dated October 17 , 1861 ) on permission to redeem the existing land revenue by the immediate payment of one sum equal in value to the revenue redeemed . By the resolution , it was provided that such redemption would be limited to 10 per cent of the total revenue in the Collectorate and the price to be paid was to be fixed at 20 years ' purchase of the existing assessment . It may be mentioned that in Despatch No . 14 dated July 9 , 1862 , the Secretary of State for India ( Sir Charles Wood ) did not agree with the earlier policy , but did not cancel it . It may thus be assumed that what was done was under the authority of the Crown , which was then paramount , which paramountcy included the prerogative to free land from the demand of land revenue with or without conditions . We have , therefore , to examine three things : the effect of acquisition on the continuance of the assessment to land revenue , the effect of redemption by a down payment on the same , 77 606 and the effect of the grant , free from land revenue , to the Justices . The acquistion was under Act VI of 1857 . That Act provided in B. XXVI as follows : `` When any land taken under this Act forms part of an estate paying revenue to Government , the award shall specify the net rent of the land including the Government Revenue , and the computed value of such rent : and it shall be at the discretion of the Revenue authorities either to pay over the whole of such value to the owner of the estate on the condition of his continuing to pay the jumma thereof without abatement ; or to determine what proportion of the net rent shall be allowed as a remission of revenue , in which case a deduction shall be made from the said value proportionate to the value of such remission. '' This provision only saved the Estate assessed to land revenue from liability to pay land revenue proportionately falling upon the land acquired compulsorily , subject to a like proportionate reduction in the amount of compensation payable to the proprietor of the estate , but the provision can not be stretched to mean that the liability of the land actually acquired , to land revenue in the hands of grantees from the Government also ceased . Be that as it may , it is hardly necessary to view the present case from this angle at all , because , whether the land acquired continued to be subject to an assessment or must be deemed to be reassessed as a separate estate , the result would be the same if Government demand still subsisted on it ,