tank wagon . Dr. Bagui does not depose about the police people taking a sample of oil . He was not questioned about the police taking any sample of the oil . There seems to be no good reason for the police taking a sample of oil for the purpose of analysis and finding out whether the mustard oil was pure or not . The case put to Dr. Bagui during his cross examination , on behalf of the appellants , appears to have been that he himself had taken four samples of the mustard oil in question and that one of those samples was sent to the Enforcement Branch . Dr. Bagui denied that he had taken 668 four samples of the mustard oil , His statement is fully corroborated by the statement of Kalidas Ganguli , Sub Inspector , Calcutta Enforcement Branch , Police Department , who had accompanied Dr. Bagui on the occasion . He stated that the Corporation Food Inspector took three samples and the police took the one , ,sample which was sealed with the Corporation seal . We are not satisfied that the police actually took one sample of the oil and had it sealed with the Corporation seal as deposed to by Kalidas Ganguli . The Courts below found on the evidence that the mustard oil in the appellants ' tank wagon was adulterated with groundnut oil , that the appellants were in possession of that oil and had stored that oil for sale , in view of the presumption arising under subs . ( 4 ) of section 462 of the Act , and which had not been rebutted on behalf of the appellants . Learned counsel for the appellants has questioned the correctness of these findings . We have considered the evidence in connection with the analysis of the samples of mustard oil by the Chemists . Ashit Ranjan Sen , P.W . 2 , Public Analyst , who examined the first sample sent by Dr. Bagui on January 3 4 , 1955 , found it adulterated , on the basis of the data that the B. R. Index at 40 degree C was 60.4 and the Bellier 's test for groundnut oil was positive inasmuch as it gave turbidity at 28 degree C. Court Witness No . 1 , Dulal Chand Dey , who actually analysed the sample sent by the Court , also found it adulterated , on the basis of his obtaining the saponification value to be 175.5 , iodine value to be 106degree 8 and the appearance of turbidity at 27 degree C. He also found indication of the presence of a small amount of linseed oil . The correctness of his opinion on these data is admitted by Sri Mitra , D.W. 7 . In these circumstances , the finding of the Courts below that the mustard oil in the appellant 's tank wagon was adulterated is correct . It is not established that the sample of mustard oil sent to Sri Mitra by the Deputy Commissioner of the Enforcement Branch contained mustard oil from this tank wagon . The opinion of Sri Mitra about the nature of that sample therefore does not go against the opinion 669 of Sri Sen and Sri Dey that the mustard oil analysed by them was adulterated with groundnut oil . The other contention for the appellants is that they were not in possession of the oil when the sample of mustard oil was taken by Dr. Bagui and that therefore no presumption under sub section ( 4 ) of section 462 of the Act can be raised against them for holding that the oil was stored for sale . It appears from the judgment of the High Court under appeal that it was not disputed at the hearing before it that the appellants were in possession of the mustard oil whose sample had been taken . On the evidence on the record we are of opinion that they were in possession of the mustard oil . The consignment of oil was from the manufacturing firm , appellant No . 1 , to itself at Calcutta . Its manager , appellant No . 2 , took delivery of the wagon from the railway authorities on January 3 , 1955 . There is no direct evidence to the effect that such delivery was taken prior to Dr. Bagui 's taking sample of the mustard oil . But the circumstances , in our opinion , conclusively establish that appellant No . 2 had taken delivery of the wagon prior to Dr. Bagui 's visit and taking samples of oil from the wagon . Appellant No . 2 is not expected to and could not have got the wagon opened for 'the purpose of taking samples of oil , if he had not taken delivery of the wagon from the railway authorities . The railway authorities themselves would have seen to it that nobody tampers with the contents of the wagon in its charge . Appellant No . 2 must have therefore paid the freight for the wagon prior to Dr. Bagui 's visit and thus obtained delivery of the wagon . It was thereafter that he got control over the wagon and was in a position to take out oil from it or to permit anyone else to take out oil . We therefore hold that the appellants were in possession of the oil in the tank wagon when Dr. Bagui took samples of the oil from it . The main contention , however , for the appellants is that the presumption that the mustard oil was stored for sale by the appellants , under sub section ( 4 ) of section 462 of the Act , is rebuttable and has been fully rebutted in view of certain arrangements between the 83 670 U.P . Oil Millers Association and the Deputy Commissioner of Police , Enforcement Branch , and the letter of