minal Appeal No . 118 of 1959 . Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated July 2 , 1957 , of the Calcutta High Court in Criminal Appeal No . 101 of 1956 arising out of the judgment and order dated January 16 , 1956 , of the Second Court of the Municipal Magistrate , Calcutta , in case No . 208B of 1955 . C. B. Aggarwala , B . B. Tawakley and B. P. Maheshwari , for the appellant . Nalin Chandra Bannerjee , Sunil K. Basu , section N. Mukherjee for P. K. Bose , for the respondent No . 2 . 1960 . November 24 . The Judgment of the Court was delivered by RAGHUBAR DAYAL , J . This is an appeal by special leave against the 'Order of the Calcutta High Court affirming the conviction of the appellants Messrs. Madan Mohan Damma Mal Ltd. , and Om Prokash Manglik , its Manager , under section 462 of the Calcutta Municipal Act , 1951 ( W. B. XXXIII of 1951 ) hereinafter called the Act . The facts leading to this appeal are that Messrs. Madan Mohan Damma Mal Ltd. , ( hereinafter called appellant No . 1 ) sent a consignment of mustard oil , about 499 maunds in weight , from Firozabad , the place of manufacture , to itself , at Calcutta , on December 25 , 1954 , in tank wagon No . 75612 . This wagon was placed at the Pathuriaghat siding at Calcutta at 666 about 8.45 a.m. , on January 3 , 1955 . Dr. Nityananda Bagui , Food Inspector of the Calcutta Corporation , accompanied by certain police officers , went to that siding and took three samples of mustard oil contained in this wagon , after arranging with Om Prokash Manglik , appellant No . 2 , who was found near the wagon , the purchase of 12 ounces of oil for annas eight . He took the sample of oil in three phials . They were properly sealed . One of them was given to appel lant No . 2 . The other two were kept by Dr. Bagui . He sent one of them to the Public Analyst for examination , the same day . Ashit Ranjan Sen , the Public Analyst , examined the oil contained in that phial on January 3 , 1955 , but could not come to any positive opinion about its purity . Dr. Bagui , however , seized the tank wagon that evening , sealed it with the Corporation 's seal and left it in the custody of appellant No . 2 . The oil in the tank was allowed to be removed to the godown of the appellants on January 6 , 1955 . The lock of the godown was then sealed with the seal of the Corporation . Mr. Sen reported on January 4 , 1955 , that the oil was adulterated . He sent a detailed report about the result of the examination on January 24 , 1955 . On receipt of the report about the mustard oil being adulterated , Dr. Bagui filed a complaint against the appellants on February 4 , 1955 , with respect to their . selling and keeping for sale mustard oil , a sample of which was found on analysis to be mustard oil which was adulterated with groundnut oil . During the course of the trial , the trial Court , on an application on behalf of the appellants , ordered the despatch of the third sample phial of the oil in the custody of the Corporation 's Health Officer , to the Director of Health Services , Government of West Bengal , for analysis and report . This sample was analysed by Dulal Chandra Dey , Court Witness No . 1 , and found to be adulterated with groundnut oil . The report of the Analyst was , however , sent to the Court under the signature of Dr. section K. Chatterjee , D. W. 2 , Deputy Director of Health Services , Government of West Bengal . 667 The appellants appear to have sent the sample of oil in their possession to Om Prakash , Oil Expert to the U.P . Government , who reported on July 27 , 1955 , that the sample 'conforms to Agmark Specification for Mustard Oil and is considered to be free from adulterants such as sesame , groundnut and linseed oil ' . This report , however , has not been proved . The Deputy Commissioner of Police , Enforcement Branch , Calcutta , sent a sample of mustard oil on January 10 , 1955 , to the Public Analyst , Food & Water , West Bengal Public Health Laboratory . Sri section N. Mitra , D. W. 7 , examined this sample and reported , on the basis of its saponification value to be 173.3 , and iodine value to be 105 , that the sample approximated to the standards of genuine mustard oil . This report does not establish that the sample was of pure mustard oil . Sri Mitra 's reply to the query from the Deputy Commissioner of Police for clarification , makes this very clear . It is : `` But , unless conclusive evidence of the presence of a foreign oil , corroborated in some instances by the figures of the usual oil contents , is obtained , the sample is not and can not be declared adulterated . In the present case the sample of mustard oil has already been examined exhaustively and has been certified as ` approximating to standards ' but not as genuine . The legal implication of the expression is that the sample will have the benefit of doubt. '' Further , there is no good evidence on the record to establish that the sample sent to Sri Mitra was a sample from the appellants '