the appellants to the Secretary of the Association ( Exhibit R ) on January 3 , 1955 . We have considered the various documents which have been referred to in support of the arrangement between the Association stand the Deputy Commissioner , Enforcement Branch , but do not find therein anything which would restrain legally the appellants from selling the oil even if it is found to be adulterated . The proceedings of the meeting of the U. P. Oil Millers Association held on June 9 , 1954 , and attended by the Deputy Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner of the Enforcement Branch show that no such agreement has been arrived at . Even the suggestion of the Deputy Commissioner that all the members of the Association should write to their respective mills that all the quantity of oil which would be imported should at first be passed and then made delivery of , was not fully accepted , the members simply stating that they always and invariably imported pure mustard oil . It was , however , decided that the samples of oil be taken from the next morning , i.e. , June 10 , 1954 . We however find that in November 1954 the U. P. Oil Millers Association wrote to appellant No . I that according to the decision of the Deputy Commissioner of Police , Enforcement Branch , every application to draw sample and test it should be accompanied by a certificate signed by the Chemist or the Manager or the Proprietor of the Mills to the effect that the mustard oil in the tank wagon was pure mustard oil free from Argemoni , linseed or any other adulteration , and that in February 1955 and April 1955 , the Deputy Commissioner of Police , Enforcement Branch had to remind the U. P. Oil Millers Association that it should advise all its members that whenever they indent any mustard oil from outside Bengal , they would see that the railway receipts be accompanied by a clear certificate of examination from the Chemist of the factory who examined the same . Such directions from the Deputy Commissioner of Police , Enforcement Branch , do not appear to have 671 had any great effect , as the consignment of oil received by the appellants was without any such certificate . Mahendra Kumar Gupta , D.W. 1 , Chemist of the appellants ' mill , deposed however that he had taken the sample of the oil sent in that wagon and found it to be genuine mustard oil , free from any adulteration . Any such certificate about the purity of the mustard oil sent is not proved to have accompanied the railway receipt and to have been shown or made over to Dr. Bagui , or to the Police Officers who had accompanied him at the time . Letter Exhibit R was sent on behalf of appellant No . I to the Secretary of the U. P. Oil Millers Association at 10 a.m. , on January 3 , 1955 . The letter said : `` Please arrange for sample and test through the proper authorities concerned , so that we may take the delivery of oil only if it is found pure on analysis . '' Any such statement can hardly be sufficient to rebut the presumption that the oil which was consigned by appellant No . I to itself at Calcutta was stored for sale . The letter itself does not say that the oil will not be sold . It simply says that they may take the delivery of the oil only if it is found pure on analysis . What would be done to the oil if it is found to be impure , is not stated . The Association was not in any arrangement with the Corporation which had the sole authority to take action with respect to the adulterat ed mustard oil . The Enforcement Branch of the Police had nothing to do with it . In the circumstances , all the so called arrangement with the Enforcement Branch of the Police and the consequent letters , similar to letter Exhibit R , seem to be a subtle device to make things difficult for the proper authorities responsible to see that mustard oil fit for sale be pure . It is obvious in this case itself , how this sort of arrangement has provided an occasion for the coming into existence of the alleged fourth sample of mustard oil from the appellants ' tank wagon and the non committal report about its purity . We are therefore of opinion that this letter Exhibit R , or the arrangement which led to such communication , does not establish 672 that the mustard oil in the wagon which will be otherwise presumed to be stored for sale by the appellants , was not stored for sale . We are therefore of opinion that the conviction of the appellants of the offence under section 462 of the Act is correct . The appeal therefore stands dismissed . Appeal dismissed .