Appeal No.110 of 1957 . Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated February 25 , 1955 , of the former Bombay High Court in I.T.R . No . 57/X of 1954 . N. A. Palkhivala and I. N. Shroff , for the Appellant . A. N. Kripal and D. Gupta , for the Respondent . November 24 . The Judgment of the Court was delivered by KAPUR , J . This is an appeal by special leave against the judgment and order of the High Court of Bombay answering the question submitted to it . against the assessee firm who is the appellant before 653 us , the respondent being the Commissioner of Income tax . The appeal relates to the assessment year 1949 50 , the accounting year ended on July 25 , 1948 . The appellant is a firm doing the business of importing dates from abroad and selling them in India . During the accounting year the appellant imported dates from Iraq . At the relevant time the import of dates by steamers was prohibited by two notifications dated December 12 , 1946 , and June 4 , 1947 , but they were permitted to be brought by country craft . Goods which had been ordered by the appellant were received partly by steamer and partly by country craft . Consignments , which were imported by steamer and were valued at Rs . 5 lacs were confiscated by the Customs Authorities under section 167 , item 8 of the Sea Customs Act but under section 183 of that Act the , appellant was given an option to pay fines aggregating Rs . 1,63,950 which sum on appeal was reduced to Rs . 82,250 . This sum was paid and the dates were released . On the sale of the goods certain profits accrued out of which it sought to deduct Rs . 82,250 paid as penalty on ordinary principles of commercial accounting . The Income tax Officer disallowed this claim which was also disallowed by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner . On appeal to the Income tax Appellate Tribunal this sum was held to be allowable by a majority of two to one . At the instance of the respondent the Tribunal referred the following question to the High Court for its opinion : `` Whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case , the payment of Rs . 82,250 is an allowable expenditure under Section 10 ( 2 ) ( xv ) of the Indian Income tax Act ? '' The High Court held that the above amount of Rs . 82,250 could not be said to have been paid for salvaging the goods but was paid as a penalty incurred in consequence of an illegal , act on the part of the appellant and was therefore not an allowable item under section 10 ( 2 ) ( xv ) of the Income tax Act . Against this judgment the appellant firm has come in appeal to this Court by special leave . 83 654 any contract of hire purchase was contemplated , can not be applied simpliciter , because such a contract has in it not only the element of bailment but also the element of sale . At common law the term 'hire purchase ' properly applies only to contracts of hire conferring an option to purchase , but it is often used to describe contracts which are in reality agreements to purchase chattels by instalments , subject to a condition that the property in them is not to pass until all instalments have been paid . The distinction between these two types of hire purchase contracts is , however , a most important one , because under the latter type of contract there is a binding obligation on the hirer to buy and the hirer can therefore pass a good title to a purchaser or pledgee dealing with him in good faith and without notice of the rights of the true owner , whereas in the case of a contract which merely confers an option to purchase there is no binding obligation on the hirer to buy , and a purchaser or pledgee can obtain no better title than the hirer had , except in the case of a sale in market overt , the contract not being an agreement to buy within the Factors Act , 1889 , or the Sale of Goods Act , 1893 . '' The observations quoted above are based mostly on two leading cases which have come to be regarded as the locus classicus upon the subject , namely Lee vs Butler ( 1 ) in which the transaction was described by Lord Esher , M.R. , as `` Hire and Purchase Agreements '' and Helby vs Matthews ( 2 ) in which the House of Lords distinguished the former case on the ground that in that case there was a binding contract to buy and not merely an option to buy , without any obligation to buy . Both these cases were decided in terms of Factors Act of 1889 ( 52 & 53 Viet . c. 45 , section 9 ) . Both the kinds of agreements exemplified by the two leading cases aforesaid would now be included in the definition of 'hire purchase ' as contained in section 21 of the Hire Purchase Act , 1938 ( 1 & 2 Geo. , 6 , c. 53 ) : `` 'Hire purchase agreement ' means an agreement for the bailment of goods under which the bailee ( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 1895 ] A.C. 471 . 655 may buy the goods or under which the property in the goods will or may pass to the bailee , and where , by virtue of two or more agreements , none of which by itself constitutes a hire purchase agreement , there is a bailment of goods and either the