bailee may buy the goods , or the property therein will or may pass to the bailee , the agreements shall be treated for the purposes of this Act as a single agreement made at the time when the last of the agreements was made. '' It is clear that under the Law , as it now stands , which has now been crystallised into the section of the Hire Purchase Act , quoted above , the transaction partakes of the nature of a contract or bailment with an element of sale , as aforesaid , added to it . 'in such an agreement , the hirer may not be bound to purchase the thing hired ; . he may or may not be . But in either case , if there is an obligation to buy , or an option to buy , the goods delivered to the hirer by the owner on the terms that the hirer , on payment of a premium as also of a number of instalments , shall enjoy the use of the goods , which ultimately may become his property , the transaction amounts to one of hire purchase , even though the title to the goods has remained with the owner and shall not pass to the hirer until a certain event has happened , namely , that all the stipulated instalments have been paid , or that the hirer has exercised his option to finalise the purchase on payment of a sum , nominal or otherwise . But it has been contended on behalf of the petitioners that there is no binding agreement to purchase the goods and that title is retained by the owner not as a security for payment of the price but absolutely . According to third term of the agreement , on the hirer duly performing and observing the terms of the agreement , with particular reference to the payment of the monthly instalments , `` the hiring shall come to an end and the vehicle shall , at the option of the hirer , become his absolute property ; but until such payments as aforesaid have been made , the vehicle shall remain the property of the owners . The hirer shall also have the option of purchasing the vehicle at any 656 belonging to him may be , the name and residence of the said person and the amount of penalty or increased rate of duty unrecovered ; and such Magistrate shall thereupon proceed to enforce payment of the said amount in like manner as if such penalty or increased rate had been a fine inflicted by himself. '' These sections show the punishments provided for the breach of the prohibitions in regard to importation or exportation of goods under sections 18 and 19 ; the power of the Customs Authorities to give an option to pay in lieu of confiscation and how the penalties are to be imposed . Therefore when the appellants incurred the liability they did so as a penalty for an infraction of the law ; but it can not be said that the money which they had to pay was not paid as a penalty and in fact under section 167 ( 8 ) it was a penalty . In support of his argument counsel for the appellant firm referred to Maqbool Hussain etc . vs The State of Bombay etc . ( 1 ) and to the following passage at p. 742 where Bhagwati , J. , said : `` Confiscation is no doubt one of the penalties which the Customs Authorities can impose but that is more in the nature of proceedings in rem than proceedings in personam , the object being to confiscate the offending goods which have been dealt with contrary to the provisions of the law and in respect of the confiscation also an option is given to the owner of the goods to pay in lieu of confiscation such fine as the officer thinks fit . All this is for the enforcement of the levy of and safeguarding the recovery of the sea customs duties. '' Similar observations were made by section K. Das , J. , in Shewpujanrai Indrasanrai Ltd. vs The Collector of Customs & Ors . ( 2 ) where it was said that a distinction must be drawn between an action in rem and proceeding in personam and that confiscation of the goods is a proceeding in rem and the penalties are enforced against the goods whether the offender is known or not . The view taken by this Court in the other two cases cited by counsel for the appellants , i.e. , Leo Roy ( 1 ) ; ( 2 ) ; , 836 . 657 Frey vs The Superintendent , District Jail , Amritsar ( 1 ) and Thomas Dana vs The State of Punjab ( 2 ) is the same . In Dana case ( 2 ) Subba Rao , J. , said at p. 298 : `` If the authority concerned makes an order of confiscation it is only a proceeding in rem and the penalty is enforced against the goods . On the other hand , if it imposes a penalty against the person concerned , it is a proceeding against the person and he is punished for committing the offence . It follows that in the case of confiscation there is no prosecution against the person or imposition of a penalty on him . '' In Maqbool Hussain 's case ( 3 ) the question for decision was whether after proceedings had been taken under the Sea Customs Act an accused person could be prosecuted and could or could not rely upon the plea of double jeopardy , it was held that he could not . In Shewpujanrai 's case ( 4 ) the contention raised was that after proceedings had been taken under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act it was not open