given and his conduct was palpably dishonest it did not constitute an allowable expenditure . Sir Lionel Leach , C. J. , after referring to Warne 's case ( 2 ) and Von Glehn 's case ( 3 ) held that the amount did not constitute an expenditure falling within section 10 ( 2 ) ( xii ) . The Madras High Court in Senthikumara Nadar & Sons vs Commissioner of Income tax , Madras ( 4 ) held that payments of penalty for an in . fraction of the law fell outside the scope of permissible deductions under section 10 ( 2 ) ( xv ) . In that case the assessee had to pay liquidated damages which was akin to penalty incurred for an act opposed to public policy a policy underlying the Coffee Market Expansion Act , 1942 , and which was left to the Coffee Board to enforce . Reference was also made during the course of arguments to Commissioner of Income tax vs Hirjee ( 1 ) . In that case the assessee was prosecuted under the Hoarding and Profiteering Ordinance but was finally acquitted and claimed the amount spent in defending himself under section 10 ( 2 ) ( xv ) in his assessment . It was held that the distinction between the legal expenses on a successful and unsuccessful defence was not sound and that the deductibility of such expenses under section 10 ( 2 ) ( xv ) must depend on the nature and purpose of the legal proceedings in relation to the business whose profits are in computation and are unaffected by the final outcome of the proceedings . A review of these cases shows that expenses which ( 1 ) ( 3 ) ( 2 ) ( 4 ) ( 5 ) ; 663 are permitted as deductions are such as are made for the purpose of carrying on the business , i.e. , to enable a person to carry on and earn profit in that business . It is not enough that the disbursements are made in the course of or arise out of or are concerned with or made out of the profits of the business but they must also be for the purpose of earning the profits of the business . As was pointed out in Von Glehn 's case ( 1 ) an expenditure is not deductible unless it is a commercial loss in trade and a penalty imposed for breach of the law during the course of trade can not be described as such . If a sum is paid by an assessee conducting his business , because in conducting it he has acted in a manner , which has rendered him liable to penalty it can not be claimed as a deductible expense . It must be a commercial loss and in its nature must be con templable as such . Such penalties which are incurred by an assessee in proceedings launched against him for an infraction of the law can not be called commercial losses incurred by an assessee in carrying on his business . Infraction of the law is not a normal incident of business and therefore only such disbursements can be deducted as are really incidental to the business itself . They can not be deducted if they fall on the assessee in some character other than that of a trader . Therefore where a penalty is incurred for the contravention of any specific statutory provision , it can not be said to be a commercial loss falling on the assessee as a trader the test being that the expenses which are for the purpose of enabling a person to carry on trade for making profits in the business are permitted but not if they are merely connected with the business . It was argued that unless the penalty is of a nature which is personal to the assessee and if it is merely ordered against the goods imported it is an allowable deduction . That , in our opinion , is an erroneous distinction because disbursement is deductible only if it falls within section 10 ( 2 ) ( xv ) of the Income tax Act and no such deduction can be made unless it falls within the test laid down in the cases discussed above and it can be said to be expenditure wholly and exclusively laid for the purpose of the business . Can it be said ( 1 ) 664 that a penalty paid for an infraction of the law , even though it may involve no personal liability in the sense of a fine imposed for an offence committed , is wholly and exclusively laid for the business in the sense as those words are used in the cases that have been discussed above . In our opinion , no expense which is paid by way of penalty for a breach of the law can be said to be an amount wholly and exclusively laid for the purpose of the business . The distinction sought to be drawn between a personal liability and a liability of the kind now before us is not sustainable because anything done which is an infraction of the law and is visited with a penalty can not on grounds of public policy be said to be a commercial expense for the purpose of a business or a disbursement made for the purposes of earning the profits of such business . In our opinion the High Court rightly held that the amount claimed was not deductible and we therefore dismiss this appeal with costs . Appeal dismissed .