of inn keepers . They incurred a liability to pay damages on account of injuries caused to a visitor , by the falling in of a chimney . This sum was held not to be allowable as a deduction in computing the profits ' Lord Loreburn , L. C. , in his speech said no sum could be deducted unless it be money wholly and exclusively laid out or expended for the purpose of such ( 1 ) ; 660 trade and that only such losses could be deducted as were connected with it in the sense that they were really incidental to the trade itself and they could not be deducted if they were mainly incidental to some other vocation or fell on the trader in some character other than that of a trader . Lord Davey observed : '' I think the disbursements permitted are such as are made for that purpose . It is not enough that the disbursement is made in the course of , or arise out of , or is connected with the trade or is made out of the profits of the trade . It must be made for the purpose of earning profits. '' The following passage from Lord Sterndale 's judgment at p. 566 in Von Glehn 's case ( 1 ) from which we have already quoted shows the effect of incurring a penalty as a result of a breach of the law : `` During the course of the trading this company committed a breach of the law . As I say , it has been agreed that they did not intend to do anything wrong in the sense that they were willingly and knowingly sending these goods to an enemy destination ; but they committed a breach of the law , and for that breach of the law , they were fined . That , as it seems to me , was not a loss connected with the business , but was a fine imposed upon the company personally , so far as a company can be considered to be a person , for a breach of the law which it had committed . It is perhaps a little difficult to put the distinction into very exact language , but there seems to me to be a difference between a commercial loss in trading and a penalty imposed upon a person or a company for a breach of the law which they have committed in that trading . For that reason I think that both the decision of Rowlatt , J. , in this case , and his former decision in Inland Revenue Commissioners vs Warnes & Co. ( 2 ) which he followed were right , and that this appeal should be dismissed with costs . '' In Spofforth and Prince vs Glider ( 3 ) the assessee was a firm of chartered accountants , who claimed a deduction for certain legal costs paid in connection with a ( 1 ) [ 1920 ) 2 K.B . 55.3 . ( 2 ) ( 3 ) 661 successful defence of one of the partners in a Police Court . The assessee firm also sought legal advice in regard to matters connected with some proceedings . Summons were issued against the assessee firm but were eventually dismissed . The assessee contended that the whole of the costs incurred in connection with the proceedings were `` wholly and exclusively '' laid out or expended for the appellant 's profession and were therefore allowable deductions . The Special Commissioner had held against the assessee which was upheld by the Court . The test laid down by Lord Davey in Strong & Co. vs Woodifield ( 1 ) was applied and applying that test it was held that except the expenses for obtaining legal advice the other expenses were not admissible . In Farrie vs Hall ( 2 ) F , a sugar broker was sued in the High Court for libel and the Court held that F had acted maliciously and that the defence of privilege could not prevail and awarded damages against him . F sought to claim the amount of damages as an allowable deduction contending that it was an expenditure laid out wholly and exclusively for the purposes of his trade or was a loss connected with or arising out of the trade . Relying on the cases above mentioned this amount was disallowed because it fell on the assessee in his character of a calumniator of a rival sugar broker and it was only remotely connected with his trade as a sugar broker . Therefore it was not laid out exclusively and wholly for the purpose of his business . We were also referred to the observations of Danckwerts , J. in Newson vs Robertson ( 3 ) where it was said that if the expenditure is incurred by the tax payer for more than one purpose including the commercial purposes in the sense that it is incurred for the purposes of earning profits of the trade and also some outside purpose then the expenses can not be claimed at all as not being wholly and exclusively laid out or expended for the purpose of the trade . In that case expenses claimed by a Barrister for ( 1 ) ; ( 2 ) ( 3 ) , 459 . 84 662 travelling between his house and his chambers were disallowed because his object and purpose in travelling was mixed and not wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the profession . Coming now to Indian cases ; In Mask & Co. vs Commissioner of Income tax , Madras ( 1 ) the assessee in breach of his contract sold crackers at a lower rate and a decree was passed against him for damages for breach of contract which he claimed as an allowable deduction . It was held that as the assessee had disregarded the undertaking