to the Customs Authorities to take any action under the Sea Customs Act . The other two cases were similar to Maqbool Hussain 's case ( 3 ) . The contention now raised before us is quite different . What is to be decided in the present case is whether the penalty which was paid by the appellant firm was an allowable deduction within section 10 ( 2 ) ( xv ) of the Income tax Act which provides : section 10 ( 2 ) ( xv ) `` any expenditure ( not being in the nature of capital expenditure or personal expenses of the assessee ) laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purpose of such business , profession or vocation. '' The words `` for the purpose of such business '' have been construed in Inland Revenue vs Anglo Brewing Co. Ltd. ( 5 ) to mean `` for the purpose of keeping the trade going and of making it pay '' . The essential condition of allowance is that the expenditure should have been laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purpose of such business . ( 1 ) ; ( 2 ) [ 1959 ] Supp . I S.C.R . 274 , 298 . ( 3 ) ; ( 4 ) ; , 836 . ( 5 ) , 813 . 658 In deciding this case , reference to decisions in some English cases will be fruitful . In Commissioners of Inland Revenue vs Warnes & Co. ( 1 ) , the assessee who carried on the business of oil exporters were sued for a penalty on an information exhibited by the Attorney General under the Sea Customs Consolidation Act for breach of orders and proclamations . The matter was settled by consent on the assessee agreeing to pay a mitigated penalty of pound 2,000 . All imputations on the moral culpability of the assessees were withdrawn . The provisions of the Act under which this information was lodged and penalty paid was similar to the provisions of the Indian Sea Customs Act . This amount was held not to be a proper deduction because in order to be within the provision similar to section 10 ( 2 ) ( xv ) of the Indian Act the loss had to be something within commercial contemplation and in the nature of a commercial loss . Rowlatt , J. , relying on the observation of Lord Loreburn , L. C. , in Strong & Co. vs Woodifield ( 2 ) said at p. 452 : `` but it seems to me that a penal liability of this kind can not be regarded as a loss connected with or arising out of a trade . I think that a loss connected with or arising out of a trade must , at any rate , amount to something in the nature of a loss which is contemplable and in the nature of a commercial loss . I do not intend that to be an exhaustive definition , but I do not think it is possible to say that when a fine which is what the penalty in the present case amounted to has been inflicted upon a trading body , it can be said that that is a `` loss connected , with or arising out of '' the trade within the meaning of this rule. '' This statement of the law was approved in the Commissioners of Inland Revenue vs Alexander Von Glehn & Co. Ltd. ( 3 ) where also in similar circumstances by consent of the assessee penalty of pound 3,000 was paid and the penalty plus the costs were claimed as deduction in arriving at the profits . The Special Commissioners had found that the penalty and costs were incurred by the assessee in the course of carrying on ( 1 ) ( 2 ) ; ( 3 ) [ 1920 ] .2 K.B . 553 . 659 their trade and so incidental thereto and were admissible deductions . Rowlatt , J. , on a reference held it to be a non deductible item . This judgment was affirmed on appeal by the Court of Appeal . Lord Sterndale , M. R. , was of the opinion that it was immaterial whether technically the proceedings were criminal or not . The money that was paid was paid as a penalty and it did not matter if in the information it was called a forfeiture . It was argued by the assessee in that case that no moral obliquity was attributed to them and that it did not matter whether the expense was incurred in consequence of an infraction of the law or whether it was a penalty for doing an illegal act . At p. 565 Lord Sterndale said : `` Now what is the position here ? This business could perfectly well be carried on without any infraction of the law . This penalty was imposed because of an infraction of the law , and that does not seem to me to be , any more than the expense which had to be paid in Strong & Co. vs Woodifield ( 1 ) appeared to Lord Davey to be , a disbursement or expense which was laid out or expended for the purpose of such trade . . '' Warrington L.J . said at p.569 : `` It is a sum which the persons conducting the trade have had to pay because in conducting it they have so acted as to render themselves liable to this penalty . It is not a commercial loss , and I think when the Act speaks of a loss connected with or arising out of such trade it means a commercial loss , connected with or arising out of the trade. '' In Strong & Co. vs Woodifield ( 1 ) a brewing company owned a licensed house in which they carried on the business