. 1 lac from the Bank of India on the joint security of himself and one Mamraj , which the assessee paid off . Mamraj also obtained a loan of Rs . I lac on the joint security of himself and the assessee . Mamraj became an insolvent and the assessee had to pay the whole of the amount borrowed with interest thereon . The assessee there received a certain amount of money by way of dividends from the Receiver and the balance he wrote off as bad debt in the assessment year and claimed it as an allowable deduction under section 10 . The High Court there held that the debt could not be said to be a debt in respect of the business of the assessee as he was not carrying on the business of standing surety for other persons nor was he a money lender , he being simply a timber merchant ; that it had not been established nor was it alleged that he was in the habit of standing surety for other persons `` along with them for purposes of securing loans for their use and benefit '' and even if money ( 1 ) ; 648 had been so borrowed and there had been a loss the loss would have been a capital loss and not a business loss to the assessee . This statement of the law was approved by this Court but there mutuality , as an essential ingredient of the custom established , was found to be lacking as is shown by the following passage from the judgment of the court . `` The custom stated before the Appellate Assistant Commissioner was that persons carrying on business in Bombay used to borrow monies on joint security from the Banks in order to facilitate getting financial assistance from the Banks and that too at lower rates of interest . A businessman could procure financial assistance from the Banks on his own , but he would in that case have to pay a higher rate of interest . He would have to pay a lower rate of interest if he could procure as surety another business man , who would be approved by the Bank . This , however , did not mean that mutual accommodation by businessmen was necessarily an ingredient part of that custom . A could procure B , C or D to join him as surety in order to achieve this objective , but it did not necessarily follow that if A wanted to procure B , C or D to thus join him as surety he could only do so if he in his own turn joined B , C or D as surety in the loans which B , C or D procured in their turns from the Banks for financing their respective businesses . Unless that factor was established , the mere procurement by A of B , C or D as surety would not be sufficient to establish the custom sought to be relied upon by the appellant so as to make the transaction of his having joined Mumraj Rambhagat as surety in the loan procured by Mumraj Rambhagat from Imperial Bank of India , a transaction in the course of carrying on his own timber business and to make the loss in the transaction a trading loss or a bad debt of the timber business of the appellant. '' Continuing at page 558 it was observed : `` There were thus elements of mutuality and the essential ingredient in the carrying on of the money lending business , which were elements of the custom 649 proved in that case , both of which are wanting in the present case before us . '' Mr. Palkhivala for the respondent rightly argued that Madan Gopal Bagla 's case ( 1 ) was decided against the assessee because the custom of persons standing surety for each other for borrowing money and the element of mutuality which was an essential ingredient in the case of Commissioner of Income Tax , Madras vs section A. section Ramaswamy Chettiar ( 2 ) was not proved . In the latter case it was established that there was a well recognised custom amongst Chettiars of raising funds for their business of money lenders by the execution of joint pronotes and that if a loss was sustained by one of the executants having to pay the whole on account of inability of the other it was a deductible loss . The appellant also relied on a judgment of the Madras High Court in Commissioner of Income Tax vs section R. Subramanya Pillai ( 3 ) . In that case the assessee was a book seller who from time to time jointly with another person borrowed money out of which he employed a portion in his business . One of such amounts borrowed was Rs . 16,200 out of which the assessee took Rs . 10,450 for his business needs and the other debtor took the balance . The latter became insolvent and the assessee had to pay the whole of the money borrowed and claimed it as allowable deduction under section 10 ( 2 ) ( xi ) or section 10 ( 2 ) ( xv ) of the Act or as business loss and it was hold that he was not entitled , because the loss sustained by the assessee was too remote from the business of book selling carried on by him and was not sufficiently connected with the trade and therefore fell outside the range of those amounts which could properly be brought into profit and loss account of the business . The decision in Commissioner of Income Tax vs section A. section Ramaswamy Chettiar ( 2 ) was there distinguished on the ground that the decision must be confined to its own peculiar facts and did not apply to business as the one in Subramanya Pillai 's Case (