Court could not have expressed its opinion on any matter other than the question actually before it as a result of the reference made by the Board of Revenue . The preliminary objection must , therefore , be allowed and the appeal limited to the question whether the transaction in question in this case amounted to a sale within the meaning of the Act . It is manifest that this controversy between the parties has to be resolved with reference to the terms of the contract itself . Clause 8 of the agreement as amended is a very complex one as will presently appear from the following extracts , being the relevant portions of that clause : `` The Corporation may hire or make available such of its equipment as is suitable for construction for the use of the Contractor . The actual prices paid by the Corporation for the equipment thus made available , inclusive of freight , insurance and custom duties , if any , and the cost of its transport to site but excluding such tax as sales tax whether local , municipal , State or Central , shall be charged to the 529 Contractor and the equipment shall remain the property of the Corporation until the full prices thereof have been realised from the Contractor . Equipment lent for the Contractor 's use , if any , shall be charged to him on terms of hiring to be mutually agreed upon ; such terms will cover interest on capital cost and the depreciation of the equipment . The Corporation will supply to the Contractor the machinery mentioned in Schedule No . 2 , Group A and Group B below . '' Then follows a description seriatim of the many items of machinery in Group A with the number of such machinery and the approximate cost thereof . In this Group A , there are fourteen items of which it is only necessary to mention the first one , that is to say , four excavators with accessories approximately valued at Rs . 12,46,390 ; and No . 14 , two excavators of another model , approximately costing Rs . 3,35,000 . The total approximate cost of the machinery in Group A is estimated to be Rs . 42,63,305 . Then follow the descriptions of machinery in Group B , the approximate cost of which is Rs . 21,84,148 . Then follow certain conditions in respect of equipments included in Group A , in these words : `` The Corporation will take over from the Contractor item 1 and 14 on the completion of the work at a residual value calculated on the basis of the actual number of hours worked assuming the total life to be 30,000 hours and assuming that the machinery will be properly looked after during the period of its operation . The remaining items of this group will be taken over by the Corporation at their residual value taking into account the actual number of hours worked and the standard life of such machinery for which Schedule F. as last relished , ? of the U. section Bureau of Industrial Revenue , on the probable useful life and depreciation rates allowable for Income Tax purpose ( vide Engineering News Record dated March 17 , 1949 ) will serve as a basis , provided that the machinery shall be properly looked after by the Contractor during the period of its operation . Provided further that such residual value of the machinery shall be assessed 530 jointly by representatives of the Corporation and of the Contractor and that in case of difference of opinion between the two parties the matter shall be settled through arbitration by a third party to be agreed to both by the Corporation and the Contractor . The items included in this group will be taken over by the Corporation from the Contractor either on the completion of the work or at an earlier date if the Contractor so wishes , provided that in the latter case the equipments will be taken over by the Corporation only when they are declared surplus at Konar and such declaration is duly certified by the Consulting Engineer , within a period of 15 days of such declaration being received by the Corporation . In respect of the machinery which shall have been delivered to the Contractor on or before the 31st of December 1950 , their cost shall be recovered from the Contractor in eighteen equal instalments beginning with January 1951 and in respect of the remaining items included in this group of machinery , their cost will be recovered from the Contractor in eighteen equal instalments beginning with July 1951 , provided that these remaining items shall have been delivered to the Contractor prior to the last specified date . Provided ( a ) that the total actual price for these equipments which has been provisionally estimated at Rs . 42,63,305 will be chargeable to the Contractor as per first para of clause 1 above . ( b ) that after approximately two thirds of total cost or an amount of Rs . 28,43,000 ( Rupees twenty eight lakhs forty three thousand ) approximately has been recovered from the Contractor on account of these equipments the Corporation will consider the date or dates when it could take over the equipments still under use by the Contractor , assess the , extent to which they have already been depreciated and thereby arrive at , their residual value ; and ( c ) that the recovery or refund of the amount payable by or to the Contractor on account of these equipments will be decided only if the Corporation is fully satisfied that their residual life at the time of 531 their being finally handed over to the Corporation shall under no circumstances fall below one third of their respective standard life as agreed upon by the Corporation and the Contractor . '' Then