agreement amount to sale transactions with the Contractors and taking over by the Corporation amounts to repurchase . This application was made on December 22 , 1953 , but when the application for making a reference to the High Court came up for hearing before the Board of Revenue on May 20 , 1954 , and after the parties had been heard , counsel for the Corporation sought leave of the Board to withdraw questions ( a ) and ( c ) from the proposed reference and the Board passed the following order : `` Leave is sought by the learned advocate for the petitioner to drop questions ( a ) and ( c ) from the reference . The leave is granted . There remains only question ( b ) for reference to the High Court . . `` Thus only question ( b ) set out above was referred to the High Court for its decision . After hearing the parties , a Division Bench of the High Court , Ramaswami , C. J. and Raj Kishore Prasad , J. , heard the reference and come to the conclusion by its judgment dated July 13 , 1956 , that the reference should be answered in the affirmative , namely , that the transaction in question amounted to a sale within the meaning of section 2 ( g ) of the Act . Thereupon the Corporation made an application headed as under article 132 ( 1 ) of the Constitution and prayed that the High Court `` be pleased to grant leave to appeal to the Supreme Court of India and grant the necessary certificate that this case is otherwise a fit case for appeal to the Supreme Court . . `` Apart from raising the ground of attack dealt with by the High Court on the reference as aforesaid , the Corporation at the time of the hearing of the applica tion appears to have raised other questions as would appear from the following extract from the judgment and order of the High Court dated January 31 , 1957 : 527 `` It was conceded by learned counsel for the petitioner that the case does not fulfill the requirements of Article 133 ( 1 ) of the Constitution ; but the argument is that leave may be granted under Article 132 of the Constitution as there is a substantial question of law with regard to the interpretation of the Constitution involved in this case . We are unable to accept this argument as correct . It is not possible for us to hold that there is any substantial question of law as to the interpretation of the Constitution involved in this case . The question at issue was purely a matter of construction of section 2 ( g ) of the Bihar Sales Tax Act and that question was decided by this Court in favour of the State of Bihar and against the petitioner . It is argued now on behalf of the petitioner that the provisions of section 2 ( g ) of the Bihar Sales Tax Act are ultra vires of the Constitution , but no such question was dealt with or decided by the High Court in the reference . We do not , therefore , consider that this case satisfies the requirements of article 132 ( 1 ) of the Constitution and the petitioner is not entitled to grant of a certificate for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court under this Article . The application is accordingly dismissed. '' Having failed to obtain the necessary certificate from the High Court , the Corporation moved this Court and obtained special leave to appeal under article 136 of the Constitution . The leave was granted on March 31 , 1958 . Though the scope of the decision of the High Court under section 25 of the Act on a reference made to it is limited , the Corporation has raised certain additional points of controversy , which did not form part of the decision of the High Court . Apart from the question whether the transaction in question amounted to a sale within the meaning of the Act , the statement of the case on behalf of the appellant raises the following additional grounds of attack , namely , ( 1 ) that the Corporation is not a dealer within the meaning of the Act , ( 2 ) that the proviso to section 2 ( g ) of the Act is ultra vires the Bihar Legislature and ( 3 ) that the Act itself is ultra vires the Bihar Legislature by reason of the 528 legislation being beyond the scope of entry 48 in List II of Schedule 7 of the Government of India Act , 1935 . Hence , a preliminary objection was raised on behalf of the respondent that the additional grounds of attack were not open to the Corporation in this Court . It is , therefore , necessary first to determine whether the additional grounds of attack set out above are open to the Corporation . In our opinion , those additional grounds are not open . They were never raised at any stage of the proceedings before the authorities below , or in the High Court . This Court is sitting in appeal over the decision of the High Court under section 25 of the Act . The High Court in coming to its conclusion was acting only in an advisory capacity . It is well settled that the High Court acting in its advisory capacity under the taxing statute can not go beyond the questions referred to it , or on a reference called by it . The scope of the appeal to this Court , even by special leave , can not be extended beyond the scope of the controversy that could have been legally raised before the High Court . It is manifest that the High