follow terms and conditions in respect of Group ' B ' which are not relevant to our purpose . Thereafter , the following conditions appear : `` In respect of equipments whether in Group A or B made available by the Corporation to the Contractor . The following conditions shall apply to all equipments , i.e. , those included in Group A and B above and others , if any ( a ) The Contractor shall continuously maintain proper machine cards separately in respect of each item of equipment , clearly showing therein , day by day , the number of actual hours the machine has worked together with the dates and other relevant particulars . ( b ) The Contractor shall maintain all such equipments in good running condition and shall regularly and efficiently give service to all plant and machinery , as may be required by the Corporation 's Chief Engineer who shall have the right to inspect , either personally or through his authorised representatives all such plant and equipment and the machine cards maintained in respect thereof at mutually convenient hours . ( c ) No item of equipment made available by the Corporation on loan or hire shall at any time be removed from the work site under any circumstances until the full cost thereof has been recovered from the Contractor by the Corporation and thereafter only if in the opinion of the Consulting Engineer the removal of such item or items is not likely to impede the satisfactory prosecution of the work . Similarly no item of equipment or material belonging to the Contractor but towards the cost of which money has been advanced by the Corporation shall at any time be removed from the work site under any circumstances until the amount of money so advanced has been recovered from the Contractor by 532 the Corporation and thereafter if in the opinion of the Consulting Engineer the removal of such item or items is not likely to impede the satisfactory prosecution of the work . ( d ) The Corporation shall supply to the Contractor whatever spares have been procured or ordered for the equipment already supplied or to be supplied by the Corporation to the Contractor under the terms of this Agreement and that thereafter the replenishment of the stock of spares shall be entirely the responsibility of the Contractor who shall therefore take active steps in time to procure fresh spares so as to maintain a sufficient reserve . The spares to be supplied by the Corporation will be issued to the Contractor by the Executive Engineer , Konar as and when required by the Contractor against indent accompanied by a certificate that the spares previously issued to him have been actually used up on the machines for which they were intended . ( e ) Whenever spares are issued to the Contractor in accordance with this provision , their actual prices inclusive of freight , insurance and customs but excluding storage and handling charges shall be debited against him and recovered from his next fortnightly bill . ( f ) In order to enable the Contractor to take active steps for planning the procurement of additional spares in advance , the Corporation shall forthwith furnish to him a complete list of all the spares which it has procured or ordered for the equipment to be supplied to the Contractor. '' The portions quoted above contain the relevant terms and conditions in respect of the transaction in question , so far as it is necessary to know them for the purpose of this case . It will be noticed that the Corporation made available to the Contractors different kinds of machinery and equipment detailed in Group A of the approximate value of Rs . 42,63,000 odd , for which the price paid by the Corporation inclusive of freight , insurance , customs duty etc . has to be charged to them . But the machinery and the equipment so 533 made available to the Contractors were to remain the property of the Corporation until the , full price thereof had been realised from the Contractors . It is also noteworthy that the agreement makes a distinction between the aforesaid part of the agreement and the equipment lent to the contractors in respect of which the contractors had to be charged in terms of hiring , including interest on capital cost and the depreciation of equipment . Thus clearly the agreement between the parties contemplated two kinds of dealings between them , namely ( 1 ) the supply of machinery and equipments by the Corporation to the Contractors and ( 2 ) loan on hire of other equipment on terms to be mutually agreed between them in respect of the machinery and equipment supplied by the Corporation to the Contractors . There is a further condition that the Corporation will take over from the contractors items 1 and 14 , specifically referred to above , and the other items in Group A at their `` residual value '' calculated on the basis indicated in the paragraph following the description of the machinery and the equipments . But there is a condition added that the `` taking over '' is dependent upon the condition that the machinery will be properly looked after during the period of its operation . There is an additional condition to the taking over by the Corporation , namely , the work for which they were meant had been completed , or earlier , at the choice of the Contractors , provided that they are declared surplus for the purposes of the construction of the Konar Dam and so certified by the Consulting Engineer . Hence , it is not an unconditional agreement to take over the machinery and equipment as in Group B . The total approximate price of Rs . 42,63,305 is payable by the Contractors in 18 equal instalments . Out of the total cost thus