Appeal No . 285 of 1959 . Appeal by Special Leave from the Judgment and Decree dated the 13th July , 1956 , of the Patna High Court in M. J. C. No . 404 of 1954 . M. C. Setalvad , Attorney General for India and section P. Varma , for the Appellants . A. V. Viswanatha Sastri , Suresh Aggarwala and D. P. Singh , for the Respondent . 1960 . November 21 . The Judgment of the Court was delivered by 524 SINHA , C.J . This appeal , by special leave , is directed against the judgment and order of the High Court of Patna dated July 13 , 1956 disposing of a reference under section 25 ( 1 ) of the Bihar Sales Tax Act , 1947 , which hereinafter will be referred to as the Act , made by the Board of Revenue , Bihar . The facts of this case have never been in dispute and may shortly be stated as follows . The appellant is a Corporation incorporated under the Damodar Valley Corporation Act ( XIV of 1948 ) and will hereinafter be referred to as the Corporation . It is a multipurpose Corporation , one of its objects being the construction of a number of dams in Bihar and Bengal with a view to controlling floods and utilising the stored water for purposes of generation of electricity . One of such dams is the Konar Dam in the district of Hazaribagh in Bihar . For the construction of the aforesaid Dam the Corporation entered into an agreement with Messrs Hind Construction Ltd. and Messrs Patel Engineering Co. Ltd. on May 24 , 1950 , and appointed them contractors for the aforesaid purpose . They will hereinafter be referred to as the Contractors . As a result of a change in the design of the Dam , it became necessary to enter into a supplementary agreement and on March 10 , 1951 , cl . 8 of Part II of the original agreement was amended and a fresh cl . 8 was substituted . Under the new cl . 8 of the agreement , as amended , the Corporation agreed to make available to the contractors such equipment as was necessary and suitable for the construction aforesaid . The Contractors are charged the actual price paid by the Corporation for the equipment and machinery thus made available , inclusive of freight and customs duty , if any , as also the cost of transport , but excluding sales tax . The equipment thus supplied by the Corporation to the Contractors was classified into two groups , Group A and Group B , as detailed in Schedule No . 2 . The machinery in Group A was to be taken over from the Contractors by the Corporation , after the completion of the work at their `` residual value '' which was to be calculated in the manner set out in the agreement . The machinery in Group B was to become the 525 property of the Contractors after its full price had been paid by them . No more need be said about the machinery in Group B , because there is no dispute about that group , the Contractors having accepted the position that Group B machinery had been sold to them . The controversy now remaining between the parties relates to the machinery in Group A . On August 12 , 1952 , the Superintendent of Sales Tax , Hazaribagh , assessed the Corporation under section 13 ( 5 ) of the Act for the period April , 1950 to March , 1952 . It is not necessary to set out the details of the tax demand , because the amount is not in controversy . What was contended before the authorities below and in this Court was that the transaction in question did not amount to a `` sale '' within the meaning of the Act . The Superintendent rejected the contention raised on behalf of the Corporation that it was not liable to pay the tax in respect of the machinery sup plied to the Contractors . The Corporation went up in appeal to the Deputy Commissioner of Sales Tax against the said order of assessment . By his order dated May 5 , 1953 , the Deputy Commissioner rejected the contention of the appellant as to its liability under the Act , but made certain amendments in the assessment which are not material to the points in controversy before us . The Deputy Commissioner repelling the Corporation 's contentions based on the Act , held inter alia that the supply of equipment in Group A of the agreement aforesaid amounted to a sale and was not a hire ; that the condition in the agreement for the `` taking over '' of the equipment on conditions laid down in the agreement was in its essence a condition of repurchase and that the Corporation was a `` dealer '' within the meaning of the Act . The Corporation moved the Board of Revenue , Bihar , in its revisional jurisdiction under section 24 of the Act . The Board of Revenue by its resolution dated October 1 , 1953 , rejected the revisional application and upheld the order of the authorities below . Thereafter , the Corporation made an application to the Board of Revenue under section 25 of the Act for a reference to refer the following 67 526 questions to the High Court at Patna , namely , ( a ) whether the assessment under section 13 ( 5 ) of the Act is maintainable , ( b ) whether , in the facts and circumstances of the case , it can be held that the property in the goods included in Schedule A did pass to the Contractors and the transaction amounted to a sale , and ( c ) whether the terms of the