( 3 ) , the assessee was the sole surviving member of a Hindu undivided family . There was a decree of Court by which the assessee was entitled to receive properties as a residuary legatee , subject , however , to certain payments of maintenance to widows . The widows continued to be members of the family . It was held that though section 9 of the Income tax Act did not apply , the assessee 's assessable income was only the balance left after payment of the maintenance charges . It appears from the facts of the case , however , that there was a charge for the maintenance ( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) 640 upon the properties of the assessee . This case also brings out correctly the principles laid down by the Judicial Committee that if there be an overriding obligation which creates a charge and diverts the income to some one else , a deduction can be made of the amounts so paid . The last case may be contrasted with the case reported in P. C. Mullick and D. C. Aich , In re ( 1 ) . There , under a will certain payments had to be made to the beneficiaries . These payments were to be made gradually together with certain other annuities . It was held that the payments could only be made out of the income received by the executors and trustees from the property , and the sum was assessable to income tax in the hands of the executors . It was pointed out that under the wilt it was stated that the amounts were to be paid `` out of the income of my property '' , and thus , what had been charged was the income of the assessees , the executors . The case is in line with the decision of the Privy Council in P. C. Mullick vs Commissioner of Income tax , Bengal ( 2 ) . In Hira Lal , In re , ( 3 ) there was a joint Hindu family , and under two awards made by arbitrators which were made into a rule of the Court , certain maintenance allowances were payable to the widows . These payments were also made a charge upon the property . It was held that inasmuch as the payments were obligatory and subject to an overriding charge they must be excluded . Here too , the amount payable to the widows was diverted from the family to them by an overriding obligation in the nature of a charge , and the income could not be said to accrue to the joint Hindu family at all . In Prince Khanderao Gaekwar vs Commissioner of Income tax ( 4 ) , there was a family trust out of which two grandsons of the settlor had to be paid a portion of the income . It was provided that if their mother lived separately , then the trustees were to pay her Rs . 18,000 per year . The mother lived separately , and two deeds were executed by which the two grandsons agreed to pay Rs . 15,000 per year to the mother , ( 1 ) ( 3 ) ( 2 ) ( 4 ) 641 and created a charge on the property . The sons having paid Rs . 6,000 in excess of their obligations , sought to deduct the amount from their assessable income , and it was allowed by the Bombay High Court , observing that though the payment was a voluntary payment , it was subject to a valid and legal charge which could be enforced in a Court of law and the amount was thus deductible under section 9 ( 1 ) ( iv ) . There is Do distinction between a charge created by a decree of Court and one created by agreement of parties , provided that by that charge the income from property can be said to be diverted so as to bring the matter within section 9 ( 1 ) ( iv ) of the Act . The case was one of application of the particular section of the Act and not one of an obligation created by a money decree , whether income accrued or not . The case is , therefore , distinguishable from the present , and we need not consider whether in the special circumstances of that case it was correctly decided . In V. M. Raghavalu Naidu & Sons vs Commissioner of Income tax ( 1 ) , the assessees were the executors and trustees of a will , who were required to pay maintenance allowances to the mother and widow of the testator . The amount of these allowances was sought to be deducted , but the claim was disallowed . Satyanarayana Rao and Viswanatha Sastri , JJ . distinguished the case from that of the Privy Council in Bejoy Singh Dudhuria ( 2 ) . Viswanatha Sastri , J. observed that the testator was under a personal obligation under the Hindu law to maintain his wife and mother , and if he had spent a portion of his income on such maintenance , he could not have deducted the amount from his assessable income , and that the position of the executor was no better . Satyanarayana Rao , J. added that the amount was not an allowance which was charged upon the estate by a decree of Court or otherwise and which the testator himself had no right or title to receive . The income which was received by the executors included the amount paid as maintenance , and a portion of it was thus applied in discharging the obligation . ( 1 ) ( 2 ) 642 The last cited case is again of the Bombay High Court , which seems to have influenced the decision in the instant case . That is