Judges of the High Court held that the respondent was charged with committing cognizable offences and therefore sub paragraph ( 1 ) of para . 486 governed the situation and that , as no case , as required by the said sub paragraph , was registered against the respondent in the police station , the order of dismissal was invalid . They further held that the case was not covered by the first proviso to sub paragraph ( 1 ) of para . 486 , as , in their opinion , the information 676 about the commission of the offences was not in the first instance received by the Magistrate and forwarded to the police for inquiry . In view of that finding they found it unnecessary for them to express any opinion upon other arguments which had been advanced on behalf of the respondent . In the result they issued a writ in the nature of certiorari quashing the impugned orders . Hence the appeal . Mr. C. B. Agarwala , learned counsel appearing for the appellants , raised before us the following points : ( 1 ) The Governor exercised his pleasure through the Superintendent of Police , and , as the Police Regulations were only administrative directions , the non compliance therewith would not in any way affect the validity of the order of dismissal . ( 2 ) If the order of dismissal was held to have been made under the statutory power conferred upon the Superintendent of Police , the regulations providing for investigation in the first place under chapter XIV of the Criminal Procedure Code were only directory in nature , and inasmuch as no prejudice was caused to the respondent the non compliance with the said regulations would not affect the validity of the order of dismissal . ( 3 ) The Superintendent of Police was authorized to follow the alternative procedure prescribed by subparagraph ( 3 ) of para . 486 and , therefore , the inquiry held without following the procedure prescribed by rule I was not bad . ( 4 ) As the magisterial inquiry was held in regard to practically all the charges , the subject matter of the departmental trial , the case is not covered by the provisions of para . 486 of the Police Regulations . In the case of The State of U. P. vs Babu Ram Upadhya ( 1 ) in which we have just delivered the judgment , we have considered the first three point ; and for the reasons mentioned therein we reject the first three contentions . The appellants must succeed on the fourth contention . From the facts already narrated , the conduct of the respondent , when he was officer incharge of the Police Station , Intiathok , was the subject matter of ( 1 ) Civil Appeal No . 119 of 1950 ; ; 677 magisterial inquiry . The Sub Divisional Magistrate made inquiry in respect of seven of the charges which were the subject matter of the departmental trial and . submitted a report to the District Magistrate . The District Magistrate , in his turn , made an endorsement on the report and communicated the same to the Superintendent of Police recommending the transfer of the respondent and suggesting that in the meanwhile the work of the respondent might be closely watched . Though the Superintendent of Police gave at first a good certificate to the respondent , in respect of the same a further probe was made through the C.I.D . Thereafter the Superintendent of Police conducted a departmental trial in respect of the aforesaid seven charges and two other new charges of the same nature . The inquiry ended in the dismissal of the respondent . In the circumstances it would be hypertechnical to hold that there was no magisterial inquiry in respect of the matter which was the subject matter of the departmental trial . On the said facts we hold that the departmental inquiry was only a further step in respect of the misconduct of the respondent in regard whereto the magisterial inquiry was held at an earlier stage . If so , the question is whether para . 486 would govern the present inquiry or it would fall out side its scope . The relevant provisions of the Police Regulations read : Paragraph 486 : `` When the offence alleged against a police officer amounts to an offence only under s : 7 of the Police Act , there can be no magisterial inquiry under the Criminal Procedure Code . In such cases , and in other cases until and unless a magisterial inquiry is ordered , inquiry will be made under the direction of the Superintendent of Police in accordance with the following rules ; '' Paragraph 489 : `` A police officer may be departmentally tried under section 7 of the Police Act ( 1 ) after he has been tried judicially ; ( 2 ) after a magisterial inquiry under the Criminal Procedure Code ; 86 678 ( 3 ) after a police investigation under the Criminal Procedure Code or a departmental enquiry under paragraph 486 III above . '' A combined reading of these provisions indicates that para . 86 does not apply to a case where a magisterial inquiry is ordered ; and that a police officer can be departmentally tried under section 7 of the Police Act after such a magisterial inquiry . In this case the departmental trial was held subsequent to the completion of the magisterial inquiry and therefore it falls within the express terms of para . 489 ( 2 ) . The fact that in the interregnum the police received further complaints or that the C.I.D . made further enquiries do not affect the question , if substantially the subject matter of the magisterial inquiry and the departmental trial is the same . In this case we have held that it