reported in Seth Motilal Manekchand vs Commissioner of Income tax ( 1 ) . In that case , there was a managing agency , which belonged to a Hindu joint family consisting of A , his son B and A 's wife . A partition took place , and it was agreed that the managing agency should be divided , A and B taking a moiety each of the managing agency remuneration but each of them paying A 's wife 2 as . 8 pies out of their respective 8 as . share in the managing agency remuneration . Chagla , C. J. and Tendolkar , J. held that under the deed of partition A and B had really intended that they were to receive only a portion of the managing agency commission and that the amount paid to A 's wife was diverted before it became the income of A and B and could be deducted . The learned Judge observed at p. 741 as follows : `` We are inclined to accept the submission of Mr. Kolah that it does constitute a charge , but in our opinion , it is unnecessary to decide this question because this question can only have relevance and significance if we were considering a claim made for deduction under section 9 ( 1 ) ( iv ) of the Income tax Act where a claim is made in respect of immovable property where the immovable property is charged or mortgaged to pay a certain amount . It is sufficient for the purpose of this reference if we come to the conclusion that Bhagirathibai had a legal enforceable right against the partner in respect of her 2 annas and 8 pies share and that the partner was under a legal obligation to pay that amount. '' These are the cases which have considered the problem from various angles . Some of them appear to have applied the principle correctly and some , not . But we do Dot propose to examine the correctness of the decisions in the light of the facts in them . In our opinion , the true test is whether the amount sought to be deducted , in truth , never reaches the assessee as his income . Obligations , no doubt , there are in every case , but it is the nature of the obligation which is the ( 1 ) 643 decisive fact . There is a difference between an amount which a person is obliged to apply out of his income and an amount which by the nature of the obligation can not be said to be a part of the income of the assessee . Where by the obligation income is diverted before it reaches the assessee , it is deductible ; but where the income is required to be applied to discharge an obligation after such income reaches the assessee , the same consequence , in law , does not follow . It is the first kind of payment which can truly be excused and not the second . The second payment is merely an obligation to pay another a portion of one 's own income , which has been received and is since applied . The first is a case in which the income never reaches the assessee , who even if he were to collect it , does so , not as part of his income , but for and on behalf of the person to whom it is payable . In our opinion , the present case is one in which the wife and children of the assessee who continued to be members of the family received a portion of the income of the assessee , after the assessee had received the income as his own . The case is one of application of a portion of the income to discharge an obligation and not a case in which by an overriding charge the assessee became only a collector of another 's income . The matter in the present case would have been different , if such an overriding charge had existed either upon the property or upon its income , which is not the case . In our opinion , the case falls outside the rule in Bejoy Singh Dudhuria 's case and rather falls within the rule stated by the Judicial Committee in P. C. Mullick 's case For these reasons , we hold that the question referred to the High Court ought to have been answered in the negative . We , accordingly , discharge the answer given by the High Court , and the question will be answered in the negative . The appeal is thus allowed with costs here and in the High Court . Appeal allowed .