No . 528 , of 1959 . Appeal from the judgment and order dated September 20 , 1957 , of the former Bombay High Court in I.T.R . No . 15 of 1957 . Hardayal Hardy and D. Gupta , for the appellant . R. J. Kolah , section N. Andley , J . B. Dadachanji , Rameshwar Nath and P. L. Vohra , for the respondent . 635 1960 . November 24 . The Judgment of the Court was delivered by HIDAYATULLAH , J . The Commissioner of Income tax , Bombay City 11 , has filed this appeal with a certificate under section 66A ( 2 ) of the Income tax Act , against the judgment and order of the High Court of Bombay dated September 20 , 1957 , in Income tax Reference No . 15 of 1957 . The question referred to the High Court for its opinion by the Income tax Appellate Tribunal , Bombay was : `` Whether the assessee is entitled to a deduction of Rs . 1,350 and Rs . 18,000 from his total income of the previous year relevant to the assessment years , 1953 54 , 1954 55 ? '' The assessee , Sitaldas Tirathdas of Bombay , has many sources of income , chief among them being property , stocks and shares , bank deposits and share in a firm known as Messrs. Sitaldas Tirathdas . He follows the financial year as his accounting year . For the assessment years 1953 54 and 1954 55 , his total income was respectively computed at Rs . 50,375 and Rs . 55,160 . This computation was not disputed by him , but he sought to deduct therefrom a sum of Rs . 1,350 in the first assessment year and a sum of Rs . 18,000 in the second assessment year on the ground that under a decree he was required to pay these sums as maintenance to his wife , Bai Deviben and his children . The suit was filed in the Bombay High Court ( Suit No . 102 of 1951 ) for maintenance allowance , separate residence and marriage expenses for the daughters and for arrears of maintenance , etc . A decree by consent was passed on March 11 , 1953 , and maintenance allowance of Rs . 1,500 per month was decreed against him . For the account year ending March 31 , 1953 only one payment was made , and deducting Rs . 150 per month as the rent for the flat occupied by his wife and children , the amount paid as maintenance under the decree came to Rs . 1,350 . For the second year , the maintenance at Rs . 1,500 per month came to Rs . 18,000 which was claimed as a deduction . 636 No charge on the property was created , and the matter does not fall to be considered under section 9 ( 1 ) ( iv ) of the Income tax Act . The assessee , however , claimed this deduction on the strength of a ruling of the Privy Council in Bejoy Singh Dudhuria vs Commissioner of Income tax ( 1 ) . This contention of the assesses was disallowed by the Income tax Officer , whose decision was affirmed on appeal by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner . On further appeal , the Tribunal observed : `` This is a case , pure and simple , where an assessee is compelled to apply a portion of his income for the maintenance of persons whom he is under a personal and legal obligation to maintain . The Income tax Act does not permit of any deduction from the total income in such circumstances. '' The Tribunal mentioned in the statement of the case that counsel for the assessee put his contention in the following words : `` I claim a deduction of this amount from my total income because my real total income is whatever that is `` computed , which I do not dispute , less the maintenance amount paid under the decree. '' The assessee appears to have relied also upon a decision of the Lahore High Court in Diwan Kishen Kishore vs Commissioner of Income tax ( 2 ) . The Tribunal , however , referred the above question for the opinion of the High Court . The High Court followed two earlier decisions of the same Court reported in Seth Motilal Manekchand vs Commissioner of Income tax ( 3 ) and Prince Khanderao Gaekwar vs Commissioner of Income tax ( 4 ) , and held that , as observed in those two cases , the test was the same , even though there was no specific charge upon property so long as there was an obligation upon the assessee to pay , which could be enforeed in a Court of law . In Bejoy Singh Dudhuria 's case ( 1 ) , there was a charge for maintenance created against the assessee , and the Privy Council had observed that the income must be deemed to have never reached that assessee , ( 1 ) ( 3 ) ( 2 ) ( 4 ) 637 having been diverted to the maintenance holders . In the judgment under appeal , it was held that the income to the extent of the decree must be taken to have been diverted to the wife and children , and never became income in the hands of the assessee . The Commissioner of Income tax questions the correctness of this decision and also of the two earlier decisions of the Bombay High Court . We are of opinion that the contention raised by the Department is correct . Before we state the principle on which this and similar cases are to be decided , we may refer to certain rulings , which illustrate the aspects the problem takes . The leading case on the subject is the decision of