the Judicial Committee in Bejoy Singh Dudhuria 's case ( 1 ) . There , the stepmother of the Raja had brought a suit for maintenance and a compromise decree was passed under which the stepmother was to be paid Rs . 1,100 per month , which amount was declared a charge upon the properties in the hands of the Raja , by the Court . The Raja sought to deduct this amount from his assessable income , which was disallowed by the High Court at Calcutta . On appeal to the Privy Council , Lord Macmillan observed as follows : `` But their Lordships do not agree with the learned Chief Justice in his rejection of the view that the sums paid by the appellant to his step mother were not 'income ' of the appellant at all . This in their Lordships ' opinion is the true view of the matter . When the Act by Section 3 subjects to charge 'all income ' of an individual , it is what reaches the individual as income which it is intended to charge . In the present case the decree of the court by charging the appellant 's whole resources with a specific payment to his step mother has to that extent diverted his income from him and has directed it to his stepmother ; to that extent what he receives for her is not his income . It is not a case of the application by the appellant of part of his income in a particular way , it is rather the allocation of a sum out of his revenue before it becomes income in his hands . '' ( 1 ) 81 638 Another case of the Privy Council may well be seen in this connection . That case is reported in P. C. Mullick vs Commissioner of Income tax , Bengal ( 1 ) . There , a testator appointed the appellants as executors and directed them to pay Rs . 10,000 out of the income on the occasion of his addya sradh . The executors paid Rs . 5,537 for such expenses , and sought to deduct the amount from the assessable income . The Judicial Committee confirmed the decision of the Calcutta High Court disallowing the deduction , and observed that the payments were made out of the income of the estate coming to the hands of the executors and in pursuance of an obligation imposed upon them by the testator . It observed that it was not a case in which a portion of the income had been diverted by an over riding title from the person who would have received it otherwise , and distinguished the case in Bejoy Singh Dudhuria 's case ( 2 ) . These cases have been diversely applied in India , but the facts of some of the cases bring out the distinction clearly . In Diwan Kishen Kishore vs Commissioner of Income tax ( 3 ) , there was an impartible estate governed by the law of primogeniture , and under the custom applicable to the family , an allowance was payable to the junior member . Under an award given by the Deputy Commissioner acting as arbitrator and according to the will of the father of the holder of the estate and the junior member , a sum of Rs . 7,200 per year was payable to the junior member . This amount was sought to be deducted on the ground that it was a necessary and obligatory payment , and that the assessable income must , therefore , be taken to be pro tanto diminished . It was held that the income never became a part of the income of the family or of the eldest member but was a kind of a charge on the estate . The allowance given to the junior member , it was held , in the case of an impartible estate was the separate property of the younger member upon which he could be assessed and the rule that an allowance given by the head of a Hindu coparcenary to its members by way of maintenance was liable to be assessed ( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) 639 as the income of the family , had no application . It was also observed that if the estate had been partible and partition could have taken place , the payment to the junior member out of the coparcenary funds would have stood on a different footing . In that case , the payment to the junior member was a kind of a charge which diverted a portion of the income from the assessee to the junior member in such a way that it could not be said that it became the income of the assessee . In Commissioner of Income tax , Bombay vs Makanji Lalji ( 1 ) , it was stated that in computing the income of a Hindu undivided family monies paid to the widow of a deceased coparcener of the family as maintenance could not be deducted , even though the amount of maintenance had been decreed by the Court and had been made a charge on the properties belonging to the family . This case is open to serious doubt , because it falls within the rule stated in Bejoy Singh Dudhuria 's case ( 2 ) ; and though the High Court distinguished the case of the Judicial Committee , it appears that it was distinguished on a ground not truly relevant , namely , that in Bejoy Singh Dudhuria 's case ( 2 ) the AdvocateGeneral had abandoned the plea that the stepmother was still a member of the undivided Hindu family . It was also pointed out that this was a case of assessment as an individual and not an assessment of a Hindu undivided family . In Commissioner of Income tax , Bombay vs D. R. Naik