19 ( 2 ) made by the Constitu tion ( First Amendment ) Act which is retrospective in opera tion , and the decision of the High Court on this point can not be sustained . Basant Chander Ghosh contended that the amendment made in article 19 ( 2 ) of the Constitution with retrospective operation was repugnant to article 20 of the Constitution inasmuch as it declared a certain act an offence which was not an offence at the time when the act was committed . This contention is untenable . The respondent is alleged to have violated the provisions of section 4 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Indian Press ( Emergency Powers ) Act which was a law in force in the year 1949 when the offending pamphlet was published . She has not been convicted of any offence so far and is not being again convicted for the same by reason of the amend ment in article 19 ( 2 ) . Article 20 has no application whatev er to the present case . Article 19 ( 2 ) empowers a legislature to make laws imposing reasonable restrictions on the funda mental rights conferred under article 19 ( 1 ) of the Constitu tion . It does not declare any acts which were not offences before as offences with retrospective effect . Moreover , in the year 1949 the respondent was not possessed of any funda mental right which could be said to have been contravened by the amendment . Though , as I have said above , the High Court is in error in the finding that the provisions of section ,4 ( 1 ) ( a ) ( 1 ) [ 1950 ] S.C.R . 594 , 661 of the Indian Press ( Emergency Powers ) Act are repugnant to the Constitution , its judgment has to be maintained as it is also in error in holding that the pamphlet in question fell within the mischief of section4 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Indian Press ( Emergency Powers ) Act . The document is written in high flown Bengali language and contains a good deal of demagogic claptrap with some pretence to poetic flourish . It enunciates certain abstract propositions in somewhat involved language and it can not be followed except with considerable effort . The High Court held that the document offended against the provisions of section 4 ( 1 ) ( a ) inasmuch as certain parts of it contemplate a bloody and violent revolution and that the central theme that runs through the whole gamut of the offending pamphlet is that the author is anxious to bring about a bloody revo lution and change completely the present order of things by causing a total annihilation of the persons and the policies of those who according to him are in the opposite camp . Particular reference was made to the following passages in the writing which in the opinion of the learned Judges support that conclusion . The first of these passages is in these words : `` Oh thou foolish oppressor , you want to cause abject terror in me with your red eyes and full throated voice do that , I am not afraid . . My pro test is against parochial national politics . `` Another passage reads thus : `` Death is my secret love ; poison is my drink the flames of fire are my sweet breeze ; the wailing of a hundred be reaved childless mothers is just a tune in my flute ; the weeping of widows at their widowhood is just a rhythm of my song. '' The next passage referred to is in these terms : `` I am the cremation ground . I am the bloodthirsty goddess Kali who lives and moves about in the cremation ground . Plague or famine is my great joy . . I am thirsty , I want blood , I want revolution , . 662 I want faith in the struggle . Tear , tear the chain of wrongs ; Break thou the proud head of the oppressor. '' Reference was also made to a passage in which the writer desires that his cries should be heard by people far and near , that his call should be hearkened far far away across the hills , the jungles , across the rivers and rivulets and all those who hear should come forward to join the ranks in destroying the oppressor and in which he claims that he is the messenger of death , that his revolutionary song signals the door of each of the listeners and signals to them to come out if they have life , if they have health , if they have courage to come and dash to pieces those who commit oppression on the mother , and he says that with the blood of those followers let the revolution grow . It winds up with an invocation to the readers in these terms : `` If you are true , if you are the gift of God , if you are not a bastard , then come forward with a fearless heart to struggle against the oppressors ' improper conduct , oppres sion and injustice . We should not tolerate wrongful oppres sion . Oh , thou the people with the burning pain of thine heart burn the heart of the oppressive , high handed oppres sor . Let all wrongs , all high handedness , all oppressions , all tyrannies be burnt in the flame. '' It seems to me that the learned Judges of the High Court took this writing too seriously . It did not deserve that consideration . It is some kind of patch up work , with no consistency or cohesion between its different parts . Por tions of it are unmeaning nonsense and in other parts it talks of revolution in