the abstract . There is no appeal to anybody in particular or for any known or specific cause . No mention is made of any specific kind of oppression or injus tice that is intended to be remedied . The desire is . to change the face of the earth by ending all oppression , tyranny and injustice . Their is no evidence whatsoever for connecting this pamphlet with any agitation or movement at the time it was written in that locality . I have read the writing several times and I think that Mr. Ghosh is 663 right when he says that the pamphlet contains merely empty slogans , carrying no particular meaning except some amount of figurative expression or language borrowed at random from various authors with a touch of poetic flourish about it . Writings of this characters at the present moment and in the present background of our country neither excite nor have the tendency to excite any person from among the class which is likely to read a pamphlet of this nature . They will necessarily be educated people . Such writings leave their readers cold and nobody takes them seriously . People laugh and scoff at such stuff as they have become too familiar with it and such writings have lost all sting . Any non descript person who promises to change the order of things by bloody revolution and assumes the role of a new Messiah is merely the laughing stock of his readers and creates an adverse impression against himself , rather than succeed in stirring up any excitement in the minds of the readers . Rhetoric of this kind might in conceivable circumstances inflame passions as , for example , if addressed to an excited mob , but if such exceptional circumstances exist it was for the State Government to establish the fact . In the absence of any such proof we must assume that the pamphlet would be read by educated persons in the quietness of their homes or in other places where the atmosphere is normal . I would therefore hold , in the words of my brother Bose in Bhagwati Charan Shukla vs Government of C.P . & Berar ( 1 ) , that though the pamphlet in question uses extravagant language and there is in it the usual crude emotional appeal which is the stock in trade of the demagogue as well as a blundering and ineffective attempt to ape the poets , that is all , and there is nothing more in it . The time is long past when writings of this kind can in normal circumstances excite people to commit crimes of violence or murder or tend to excite any body to commit acts of violence . Again the language employed is full of mysticism and ( I ) I.L.R . 664 can not be easily understood and it creates no impression of any kind on any person . In order to determine whether a particular document falls within the ambit section 4 ( 1 ) , the writing has to be considered as a whole and in a fair and free and liberal spirit , not dwelling too much upon isolated passages or upon a strong word here and there , and an endeavour should be made to gather the general effect which the whole composi tion would have on the mind of the public . Expressions which are the stock in trade of political demagogues and have no tendency to excite anybody , and exaggerations in language can not lead to that result . The learned Government Advocate placed reliance on the decision of Harries C.J . in Badri Narain vs Chief Secretary , Bihar Govermnent ( 2 ) . The learned Chief Justice therein held that in order to show that cer tain words fall under section 4 ( 1 ) ( a ) it is not necessary to show that the words tend to incite or to encourage the commission of a particular offence or offences and that it is sufficient if they tend to incite to or to encourage the commission of cognizable offences of violence in general . In that case , a poem entitled `` Labourers , the mainstay 'of the world '' began by emphasising that labourers are the mainstay of the present world and then proceeded to describe their unfortunate and pitiful lot . In a subsequent portion the author stated that though speechless today , when organized , the labourers will be as powerful as millions and this portion of the poem ended with these words : `` Why are you helplessly tolerating the exploitation of your masters . '' The remaining lines were as follows : `` Labourers , raise now the cry of revolution . The heavens will tremble , the Universe will shake and the flames of revolution will burst forth from land and water . You who have been the object of exploitation , now dance the fearful dance of destruction on this earth ; truly , labourers , only total destruction will ( 2 ) A.I.R . 1941 Pat.132 665 create a new world order and that will bring happiness to the whole world. '' It is quite clear that here an appeal was made to la bourers inciting and encouraging them to commit acts of violence . The words used certainly tended to achieve that result . They were no empty slogans or abstract propositions . It had one consistent and coherent purpose , i.e. , to excite labourers and to bring them into action . Any observation made about this writing can have no apt application for the determination of the present case . The learned Chief Justice in the concluding part of the judgment very pertinently pointed out that a commonsense interpretation must be given to the document complained of , the question to be answered always being , what impression will the documents or words