again the Government has not made any attempt to explain , what this expression could , in the particular context , mean or refer to . As no acts of injustice or oppression are actually mentioned in the document , it is difficult to say who the `` oppressors '' are , whose `` proud heads '' the author asks his 668 readers to break . It is quite clear that the `` oppressor '' mentioned here is neither the Government nor the party in power , nor has it any relation to any particular class of persons or a sect or community which might be harassing others and trampling upon their rights . It may be , that to attract the operation of section 4 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Indian Press Act , the incitement to murder or violence need not be specifically directed against particular individuals or class of persons ; but when the whole talk is about injustice or oppression in the abstract , which is stated by the author to be in existence from the beginning of time and when in hyperbolic language a hope is expressed of establishing a better and a cleaner world through struggle , sweat and blood , the words used may not improperly be looked upon as an effusion of poetic fancy which , having no relation to actual facts can have very little potency for doing mis chief . I will now proceed to examine the contents of the pamphlet in detail . The writer begins in an affected poetic vein and de scribes , in language , to which it is difficult to attach any rational meaning , what `` struggle '' or revolution is . The `` struggle '' which is personified in the article introduces itself in the following manner : `` I am not wealth , nor popular strength , not the people nor fame ; . I am not joy nor a brag , nor the timid look of the beloved 's eyes . I am not mother 's affection , nor sister 's love '' . If these words convey any sense , they can only mean that the struggle or revolution which the writer wants to depict is something different from what we ordinarily associate with our social life and happiness ; it is a negation of all natural human feelings and sentiments . The next paragraph says in equal enigmatical language what `` Sangram '' or `` strug gle '' actually is . `` I am old antiquated history '' thus the article proceeds ; `` I am time eternal , I am the future , the present and the past , in my heart is written the story of the past , the problems of the present and the voice of the 669 future '' . I do not know whether this is a poetic way of depicting the entire life process which is said to lie through struggle and guide our evolution in this planet . Struggle , according to the author , is coeval with time and eternity . In the next paragraph the writer passes on to say with many repetitions of the word `` wrong '' that `` it is wrong which is pervading all over from the past to the future '' , and it is this wrong that is to be righted by the struggle . The struggle here is likened for reasons best known to the author to a piece of torn grass in the middle stream of a turbulent river , and to a grain of dust thrown in the face of a cyclone . `` It is dishonour , Unhappiness , endless pain. '' It is again likened successively to the frown of the be loved , to famine , storm and evil days . The call is sent to everybody to come on `` where the sky is cracking and the endless rough and thorny path is shrouded in darkness '' and assist in building up a new world . Many of the expressions used here are taken verbatim from the writings of some well known Bengalee authors , though they sound nothing but a rigmarole in the present context . The next paragraph begins with the word `` revolution '' . Struggle is revolution and through struggle and revolution the world is to be built anew . It is then said that `` death is my darling and death is the only truth in this world '' . If one has to die , there is no sense in dying of illness . Let a man choose an honourable death by standing against oppressors . Quite abruptly the author brings in the name of Sri Subhas Chandra Bose in the midst of this talk and asks his readers to listen `` far far away across the hills , across the jungle , across the rivers and rivulets the call of Subhas Chandra Bose , the greatest revolutionary leader of the world '' . The people are asked not to stop until the objective is attained . Again it is said `` I am struggle , I am revolution . I am a Hindu , I am a Mussalman , I am a Christian , I am a Jew , I am a Keduin , I am severed from all religions by the fruits of my action in previous births '' . Without the least attention to any sequence of thought , immediately 670 after this , the imaginary oppressor is addressed by the author as follows : `` Oh you foolish oppressor you want to terrify with your red eyes , I fear not . '' The author , or rather the personified `` struggle '' which purports to speak , then repeats the well known words of poet Tagore and says that he does not seek salvation through renunciation ; he wants that salvation which