lies in joy amidst innumerable dangers and difficulties . The idea of finding joy in all that is hated , avoided and dreaded in this world is elaborated in the passages that follow . `` Death '' it is said `` is my secret love , poison is my drink , the flames of fire are my sweet breeze , the cry of childless mothers a tune in my flute and the weeping of widows a rythm of my song '' . In this vein the author goes on conjuring up all the uncanny and weird things in the world and associat ing them with struggle . `` I am not joy , I am the remnant of the dying cries . I am the bloodthirsty goddess Kali who lives and moves about in the cremation ground . I want blood . . Break the proud head of the oppressor . I bathe in flames . . . Thunder is my kiss of affection . . I do not understand myself . I do not know myself . I do not recognise myself still I want revo lution , still I want struggle '' . The learned Judges of the High Court laid very great stress on these passages which in their opinion constitute a direct incitement to bloody revolution ; and that is also the line of argument adopted by Mr. Mitter who appeared before us on behalf of the State . It has been argued by Mr. Ghosh appearing for the respondent that the `` struggle '' which the author has depicted and which he aims at is a non violent struggle and the blood that is to be shed is the blood of those who are called upon to resist oppression and injustice . On the other hand , it is argued on behalf of the State that the passages quoted above can only mean that it is a bloody and violent revolution which could carry men to their desired end . In my opinion , neither of these contentions furnish to us the proper method of approach to the question which requires 671 decision in the present case . We would have to look at the article as a whole and focus our attention on what can be regarded to be its central theme or purpose . As has been said already , what the writer wants is to draw an ideal picture of `` struggle '' or revolution quite unconnected with any particular place , or any particular political or social environment . Injustice or oppression exists , according to the author , from the very dawn of time and so also does struggle or revolution . It is an integral part of the world process and is a sort of irrational or blind impulse . This is expressed by saying `` I do not understand myself , I do not recognise myself , still I want revolution '' . In painting death or war , the artist would naturally choose some uncanny associations . The trappings of revolution , as the author paints it , are all the fearful and hideous things in this world . It is linked up with thunder and storm , fire and devastation , cataclysm , famine , danger , destruction and death . It is immaterial so far as this ideal picture is concerned whether the blood that is spoken of is the blood of the oppressor or of the oppressed , and whether the strug gle is violent or pacific . The goddess Kali in the Hindu mythology is the goddess of destruction and death , but she is the benign goddess also whose protecting hands ward off all oppressions , danger and calamity . That is the reason why revolution or struggle is assimilated to this goddess . It can not be denied that in painting this picture of `` strug gle '' or revolution the author has used very strong words ; but they would not be unnatural if it is only an ideal picture that the author really desired to paint . If howev er , it can be shown that under the cloud of these general enigmatical words something concrete and tangible lies hidden , that the `` oppression '' and `` oppressor '' are not imagi nary abstractions but are real things not unknown to the people to whom the article is addressed and there is in fact a grievance agitating the popular mind , no matter whether it is well or ill founded , against which the author desires to inflame public opinion ; then even though he uses veiled or covert language , there 672 can be no doubt that the article would come within the purview of section 4 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Indian Press Act . But the difficulty is that the Government has not made any attempt to establish any of these facts . Without knowing the attendant circumstances and the actual background of the publication , it is not possible for us to ascertain the real intention that lies behind the writing ; and absolutely no materials have been placed before us by the Government which might enable us to find out what in reality was the sub stance behind this camouflage of words , if camouflage it actually is . The rest of the article proceeds in the same hyperbol ic and enigmatical style There is repetition ad nauseam of the same stock phrases and expressions . It goes on to say `` I am the messenger of death . I am untouchable , I am vague , I am queer , 1 am nightmare , I am robber , I am enemy , I am un known . 1 am not Falgoon with its sweet smelling flowers ; I am eternal separation , I am restlessness '' . I am extremely doubtful whether expressions like these would not , to