( 3 ) of the Act under which the notice was issued in the present case enacts as follows : `` Whenever it appears to the Provincial Government that any printing press is used for the purpose 658 printing or publishing any newspaper , book or other document containing any words , signs or visible representation of the nature described in section 4 , sub section ( 1 ) , the Provin cial Government may , by notice in writing to the keeper of the press . .order the keeper to deposit with the Magis trate security . `` Clause ( a ) of section 4 ( 1 ) deals with words or signs or visible representations which incite to or encourage , or tend to incite to or encourage the commission of any offence of murder or any cognizable of fence involving violence . It is plain that speeches or expressions on the part of an individual which incite to or encourage the commission of violent crimes , such as murder , can not but be matters which would undermine the security of the State and come within the ambit of a law sanctioned by article . 19 ( 2 ) of the Constitution . I can not help observing that the decisions of this Court in Romesh Thapar 's case ( 1 ) , and in Brij Bhushan 's case ( 2 ) have been more than once misapplied and misunderstood and have been construed as laying down the wide proposition that restrictions of the nature imposed by section 4 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Indian Press ( Emergency Powers ) Act or of similar character are outside the scope of article 19 ( 2 ) of the Constitution inasmuch as they are conceived generally in the interests of public order . Sarjoo Prosad J. also seems to have fallen into the same error . The question that arose in Romesh Thapar 's case ( 1 ) was whether the impugned Act ( Madras Maintenance Public Order Act , XXIII of 1949 ) in so far as it purported by section 9 ( 1 A ) to authorise the Provincial Government `` for the purpose of securing the public safety and the mainte nance of public order , to prohibit or regulate the entry.into or the circulation , sale or distribution in the Province of Madras or any part thereof any document or class of documents '' was a law relating to any matter which under mined the security of or tended to overthrow the State , and it was observed that whatever ends the impugned Act may have been intended to subserve and whatever ( 1 ) [ 1950 ] section C.R . 594 . ( 2 ) [ 1950 ] S.C.R . 605 . 659 aims its framers may have had in view , its application and scope could not , in the absence of delimiting words in the statute itself , be restricted to those aggravated forms of prejudicial activity which are calculated to endanger the security of the State , nor was there any guarantee that those authorized to exercise the powers under the Act would in using them discriminate between those who act prejudical ly to the security of the State and those who do not . Sec tion 4 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the impugned Act , however , is restricted to aggravated forms of prejudicial activity . It deals specifi cally with incitement to violent crimes and does not deal with acts that generally concern themselves with the mainte nance of public order . That being so , the decision in Romesh Thalbar 's case ( 1 ) given on the constitutionality of section 9 ( 1 A ) of the Madras Maintenance of Public Order Act has no relevancy for deciding the constitutionality of the provi sions of section 4 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Indian Press ( Emergency Powers ) Act . Towards the concluding portion in Romesh Tha par 's judgment ( 1 ) it was observed as follows : `` We are therefore of opinion that unless a law restrict ing freedom of speech and expression is directed solely against the undermining of the security of the State or the overthrow of it , such law can not fall within the reservation under clause ( 2 ) of article although the restrictions which it seeks to impose may have been conceived generally in the interests of public order . It follows that section 9 ( I A ) which authorizes imposition of restrictions for the wider purpose of securing public safety or the maintenance of public order falls outside the scope of authorized restric tions under clause ( 2 ) , and is therefore void and unconsti tutional. '' The restrictions imposed by section 4 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Indian Press ( Emergency Powers ) Act on freedom of speech and expression are solely directed against the undermining of the security of the State or the overthrow of it and are within the ambit of article 19 ( 2 ) ( 1 ) 94 . 660 of the Constitution . The deduction that a person would be free to incite to murder or other cognizable offence through the press with impunity drawn from our decision in Romesh Thapar 's case ( 1 ) could easily have been avoided as it was avoided by Shearer J. who in very emphatic terms said as follows : `` I have read and re read the judgments of the Supreme Court , and I can find nothing in them myself which bear directly on the point at issue , and leads me to think that , in their opinion , a restriction of this kind is no longer permissible. '' Be that as it may , the matter is now concluded by the language of the amended article