give to a man of ordinary commonsense . My answer to this query in the present case is that the document read at first sight is not intelligible unless it is explained to that man of ordinary commonsense by a learned person and hence it can by itself create no impression of any kind on such a person . After the writing is explained to such a man , he will merely laugh at it and throw it in the waste paper basket without taking it seriously . He will refuse to believe that a person of this kind can create a new world order by appealing to a bloody revolution . As I pointed out in my judgment in Harkrishan Singh vs Emperor ( 1 ) , the use of such words as appear in this document creates no impression on the mind of any reasonable reader . That case dealt with clause ( d ) of section 4 ( 1 ) , but the principle underlying it also applies to the construction of writings which are alleged to fall under section 4 ( 1 ) ( a ) . I do not mean to suggest or to lay down as a general propo sition that some of the words used in the pamphlet in ques tion in the context of any other writing would not fall within the mischief of section 4 ( 1 ) ( a ) . Certain parts of the pamphlet , if read as isolated passages , may have the tendency to excite people to commit ( I ) A , I.R , 666 crimes of violence but that is not the effect if the pam phlet is read in its entirety . The result is that I would dismiss the appeal but in the circumstances would make no order as to costs . The State Government has succeeded in its contention that sec tion 4 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Act is constitutional and that was the real ground on which it came to this Court . PATANJALI SASTRI C.J . I agree with the judgment just delivered by my learned brother Mahajan J. and have nothing to add . MUKHERJEA J. I concur in the judgment delivered by my learned brother Mahajan J. and I would like to say a few words , regarding the publication itself which led to the demand of security by the Government under the provision of the Indian Press ( Emergency ) Act . The point that requires consideration is , whether the words contained in the impugned publication are of the nature described in section 4 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Act ; or in other words whether they incite to or encourage or tend to incite to or to encourage the commission of any offence of murder or any cognizable offence involving violence . It is well settled that to arrive at a decision on this point , the writing is to be looked at as a whole without laying stress on isolated passages or particular expressions used here and there , and that the court should take into consideration what effect the writing is likely to produce on the minds of the readers for whom the publication is intended . Account should also be taken of the place , circumstances and occa sion of the publication , as a clear appreciation of the background in which the words are used is of very great assistance in enabling the court to view them in their proper perspective . The leaflet in question is entitled `` Sangram '' or struggle . It is written in high flown Bengali prose with a large mixture of poetic expressions borrowed at random from the writings of some well known 667 poets of Bengal . The object of the writing as far as could be gathered from the document is to give a poetic or ideal istic picture of what is meant and connotated by `` struggle '' or revolution . The aim and end of `` struggle `` , as stated in the leaflet , is to wipe outs , `` oppression , injus tice or wrong '' which is `` pervading all over the world from the past to the future '' ; and it is only after all wrongs , injustice and oppression have perished that a new world could be built up . This seems to be the main or central theme of the composition , clothed , though it is , under much incoherent talk and seemingly meaningless utterances . There is no indication throughout the writing as to what kind of oppression , injustice or wrong the author had in mind . Far from referring to grievances of any specific character , the writer does not even hint at such general causes of discon tent as political inequality , economic exploitation or class warfare which are the subject matter of agitation in many parts of the world . The leaflet does not give indication also of any unpopular measure or act of injustice affecting the minds of the people in the particular area where it was published and within which it was intended to be circu lated . In one part of the document the following words are found to occur : `` If mother be true , let no disgrace spread in the name of the mother . If mother tongue be equal to mother , then the said language is your most revered goddess . Do not allow disgrace to spread in her name '' . It is not the case of the Government and there is no statement or affidavit to that effect , that the passages here have any reference to the language controversy which agitated and probably is still agitating this particular district . In another part of the document the expression `` narrow parochial politics '' has been used , but here