an ordinary reader , appear to be anything better than the ravings of a mad man . I will cull a few more expressions which occur subsequently and which loftily this impression . `` I see struggle on my darling 's face , I see struggle in the honey of flowers . I am storm , I am the Deepak Ragini . I am misfortune . I am cry of distress , I am jealousy , I am evil days. '' The concluding portion of the article reads as follows : `` Let me speak the last word : If you are true , if you are gift of God , if you are not a bastard . then come forward with a fearless heart , struggle against the oppressor 's improper conduct , oppression and injustice . We shall not tolerate wrongful oppression . Oh , the people , with the pain of your heart burn : the heart of the oppressive high handed oppressor , let all wrongs , all high handedness , all oppres sions , all tyrannies be burnt in the flame. '' 673 There was a good deal of discussion before us as to whether these passages hint at a violent or a non . violent struggle . It may be capable of either interpretation . but as I have said already , that by itself would not afford a decisive solution of the question before us . It is also not much material to consider whether the author wants that `` Jealousy and malice '' which he has referred to at the end of the article , are to develop and spread or they are to be transformed into innocuous and sweet smelling flowers . This is certainly a matter upon which difference of opinion is possible . After all , we are to see what impres sion the article read as a whole would produce upon ordinary people . An ordinary reader is not expected to seek the assistance of an interpreter in trying to find out the true meaning of the words used . As has been said already , many of the expressions used here have been taken verbatim from the writings of certain noted Bengalee authors . They are stock phrases current in Bengal and amongst the Bengali speaking community elsewhere . If it strikes the reader that what the author wanted was to pass himself off as a noted writer by sheer plagiarism , then whatever else may be said about the article , it certainly does not come within the purview of section 4 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Press Act . Taking the article as it is , it is nothing but a tissue of high sounding and meaningless words and whether the author wanted to imitate some of the welt known poets of Bengal in attempting to give a poetic description of `` strug gle '' or revolution or wanted to give himself the pose of a liberator of mankind , out to wipe out the last vestiges of oppression and injustice from the face of the earth , no rational person would take him seriously and would look upon this composition as the vapourings of a deranged brain . If , on the other hand , the whole thing is a clever ruse resorted to with the object of inflaming the popular mind against certain persons or authorities , and although only general and vague words are used , the words have their meaning and significance to those 674 who are acquainted with the actual situation , it was incum bent upon the Government to clear up these matters and present before us the background and the context without which no meaning could be attributed to this species of empty verbiage . As Government did not discharge the duty that lay upon them , I am clearly of opinion that no security order could be passed against the respondent under the provision of section 4 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Press Emergency Act . DAS J . During the course of the arguments I enter tained some doubt as to the innocence of the meaning and implication of the pamphlet in question , but , in the light of the judgments of my learned brothers Mahajan J. and Mukherjea J. , which I have had the advantage of perusing since , I do not feel that I would be justified in dissenting from the construction they have put upon the language used in the pamphlet . I accordingly concur in their conclusion . Bose J. I agree with my brothers Mahajan and Mukher jea . Appeal dismissed .