3 ) . The following passage from ( 1 ) ; , ( 2 ) ( 3 ) 650 the judgment of Viswanatha Sastri , J. , in that case is relevant : `` But there the business was one of money lending and the Court found that according to the wellknown and well recognised mercantile custom of Nattukottai bankers , they were in the habit of raising 'funds which formed the stock in trade of their money lending business by the execution of joint promissory notes in favour of bankers . That was apparently the usual technique of obtaining credit adopted by the Nattukottai Chetti community money lenders . In the context this Court held that where a Nattukottai Chetti money lender paid off in their entirety the debts jointly due by him and another as a result of the latter 's inability to pay , the loss sustained as a result of this transaction was a loss of the moneylending business itself and therefore a deductible item in computing profits. '' In the instant case it has been found that there was a well recognised commercial practice in Bombay of carrying on business by borrowing money from Banks on joint and several liability . It was also found that by so doing the borrower could borrow money at a lower rate of interest than he otherwise would have paid ; that the respondent had , in accordance with the commercial practice , borrowed the money , the whole of which he had to return because the joint promisor Kishori Lal had become bankrupt ; mutuality was also held proved . It can not be said that the essential feature of the case now before us is in principle different from that of the Commissioner of Income tax vs Ramaswamy Chettiar ( 1 ) . In both cases the finding is that there is mutuality and custom of borrowing money on joint pronotes for the carrying on of business . In our opinion in the circumstances proved in the present case , and on the facts established and on the findings given , the respondent was rightly held to be entitled to deduct the loss which was suffered by him in the transaction in dispute . Counsel for the assessee drew our attention to a ( 1 ) 651 Privy Council judgment Montreal Coke and Manufacturing Co. vs Minister of National Revenue ( 1 ) but that , case can have no application to the facts of the present case because it was found there as a fact that the assessees 's financial arrangements were quite distinct from the activities by which they earned their income and expenditure incurred in relation to the financing ' of their business was not expenditure in the earning of their income within the statute . It was then contended that the loss of the respondent was a 0capital loss and for this again reliance was placed on the judgment of this Court in Madan Gopal Bagla 's case ( 2 ) and particularly on the observation at page 559 where Bhagwati , J. , quoted with approval the observations of the High Court in the judgment but as we have pointed out the facts of that case are distinguishable and what was said there has no application to the facts and circumstances proved in the present case . In our view the judgment of the High Court is right and we therefore dismiss this appeal with costs . Appeal dismissed .