Appeal No . 358 of 1958 . 645 Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated 8th March , 1956 , of the former Bombay High Court in I.T.R . No . 55 of 1955 . A. N. Kripal and D. Gupta , for the appellant . N. A. Palkhivala and B. P. Maheshwari , for the respondents . November 24 . The Judgment of the Court was delivered by KAPUR , J . This is an appeal by special leave against the judgment and order of the High Court of Bombay in Income tax Reference No . 55 of 1955 , in which two questions of law were stated for opinion and both were answered in favour of the assessee and against the Commissioner of Income tax who is the appellant before us and the assessee is the respondent . The facts of this case are these : The respondent is a registered firm carrying on business as commission agents in Bombay . For purposes of its business it borrowed money from time to time from Banks on joint promissory notes executed by it and by others with joint and several liability . On September 26 , 1949 , the respondent borrowed Rs . 1,00,000 from the Bank of India on a pronote executed jointly with one Kishorilal . Out of this amount a sum of Rs . 50,000 was taken by the respondent for purposes of its business and the rest by Kishorilal . Kishorilal however failed to meet his liability and became a bankrupt . The respondent had therefore to pay the Bank the whole amount , i.e. , Rs . 1,00,000 with interest . Out of the amount taken by Kishorilal the respondent received in the accounting year , from the Official Assignee , a sum of Rs . 18,805 and claimed the balance , i.e. , Rs . 31,740 as deduction . The accounting year was from August 26 , 1949 to July 17 , 1950 , the assessment year being 1951 52 . This claim was disallowed both by the Income tax Officer as well as the Appellate Assistant Commissioner . On Appeal to the Income tax Appellate Tribunal this sum was allowed , as an allowable deduction under section 10 ( 2 ) ( xv ) of the Income tax Act and as business loss . 82 646 At the instance of the Commissioner a case was stated to the High Court of Bombay by the Income tax Appellate Tribunal . In the statement of the case which was agreed to by both parties the Tribunal said : `` For the purpose of his business , he borrows from time to time money on joint and several liability from banks . The Commercial practice is to borrow money from banks on joint and several liability . An illustration will explain what we mean . A and B require Rs . 50,000 each . They find that the Bank would not advance Rs . 50,000 to each on his individual security . They however , find that the Bank would be prepared to advance Rupees one lach on their joint and several liability . They take Rupees one lac on joint and several liability and then divide the money equally between themselves. '' It also found that the Banks advanced monies to some constituents on their personal security also but they had to pay a higher rate of interest than when the money was borrowed on joint and several responsibility ; that Rs . 1,00,000 borrowed from the Bank was in accordance with the commercial practice of Bombay . On these facts the following two questions of law were referred to the High Court : `` ( 1 ) Whether the assessee 's claim is sustainable under section 10 ( 2 ) ( xv ) of the Act ? ( 2 ) Whether the assessee 's claim that the loss was a business loss and , therefore , allowable as a deduction in computing the profits of the assessee 's business is sustainable under law ? '' Both these questions were answered in favour of the respondent and against the appellant . Counsel for the Commissioner challenged the findings of the Tribunal in regard to the existence of commercial practice in Bombay but this ground of attack is not available to him because not only did the Tribunal give this finding in its Order , but in the agreed statement of the case also this finding was repeated as is shown by the passage quoted above . The High Court also has proceeded on the basis of this commercial practice . In the judgment under appeal the learned Chief Justice said : 647 `` The finding of the Tribunal is clear and explicit that what the assessee was doing was not something out of the ordinary , but in borrowing this money on joint and several liability he was following a practice which was established as a commercial practice . Therefore , the transaction was clearly in the course of the business and incidental to the business and it is this transaction which resulted in a loss to the assesses , he having to pay the liability of the surety. '' Therefore this appeal has to be decided on the basis that a commercial practice of financing business by borrowing money on joint and several liability was established . It was argued on behalf of the appellant that this court in Madan Gopal Bagla vs Commissioner of Income Tax , West Bengal ( 1 ) had decided against the allowability of such losses . But the facts of that case when carefully scrutinised are distinguishable and the decision does not support the contentions of the appellant . No doubt certain features of that case and the present one are similar but they differ in essential features . In that case the assessee was a timber merchant who obtained a loan of Rs