Appeal No . 270 of 1959 . Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated December 23 , 1957 , of the Allahabad High Court ( Lucknow Bench ) at Lucknow in Civil Miscellaneous Application ( 0 . J . ) No . 86 of 1954 . C. B. Aggarwala , G. C. Mathur and C. P. Lal , for the appellants . Achhru Ram , section N. Andley , J . B. Dadachanji , Rameshwar Nath and P. L. Vohra , for the respondent . November , 25 . The Judgment of Sarkar , Subba Rao and Mudholkar , JJ. , was delivered by Subba Rao , J. , and that of Gajendragadkar and Wanchoo , JJ. , was delivered by Wanchoo , J. SUBBA RAO , J . This is an appeal by special leave against the judgment and order of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad , Lucknow Bench , allowing the petition filed by the respondent under article 226 of the Constitution . The facts are in a small compass and may be briefly stated . In the year 1933 the respondent was appointed a constable in U. P. Police Force ; on December 1 , 1945 , he was promoted to the rank of head constable and in May , 1952 he was posted as officer incharge of Police Station , Intiathok , District Gonda . Complaints were received by the District Magistrate , Gonda , to the effect that the respondent was receiving bribes in the discharge of his duties . On September 16 , 1952 , the District Magistrate , Gonda , directed the Sub Divisional Magistrate to make an enquiry in respect of the 674 said complaints . On November 3,1952 , the Sub Divisional Magistrate , after making the necessary enquiries , submitted a report to the District Magistrate recommending the transfer of the respondent to some other station . On November 17 , 1952 , the District Magistrate sent an endorsement to the Superintendent of Police to the effect that the Sub Divisional Magistrate had found substantial complaints against the integrity of the respondent , that he had also received such complaints and that his general reputation for integrity was not good , but that his transfer should , however , come after sometime and that in the meantime his work might be closely watched . On being called upon by the Superintendent of Police to submit an explanation for his conduct , the respondent submitted his explanation on November 29 , 1952 . On December 17 , 1952 , the respondent was forced to go on leave for two months . Before the expiry of his leave , he was reverted to his substantive post of head constable and transferred to Sitapur . On February 17 , 1953 , he was promoted to the rank of officiating Sub Inspector and posted as Station Officer at Sidholi . On February 27 , 1953 , the Superintendent of Police made the following endorsement in his character roll : `` A strong officer with plenty of push in him and met with a strong opposition in this new charge . Crime control was very good but complaints of corruption were received which could not be substantiated . Integrity certified. '' Meanwhile on further complaints , the C.I.D . probed the matter further and on July 26 , 1953 , the Superintendent of Police , Investigation Branch , C.I.D. , reported that the respondent was a habitual bribetaker . On July 28 , 1953 , he was placed under suspension and on August 18 , 1953 , he was charged under section 7 of the Police Act with remissness in the discharge of his duty and unfitness for the same inasmuch as while posted as a Station Officer , Police Station , Intiathok , he had been guilty of dishonesty , corruption and misbehaviour in that he had on nine occasions , particulars of which were given in the charge , accepted bribes . it may be mentioned that the magisterial inquiry 675 related to seven of the nine charges alleged against the respondent . The trial was conducted by the , Superintendent of Police and the respondent submitted his explanation on September 12 , 1953 . The Superintendent of Police , who conducted the trial , examined many witnesses and found that seven out of the nine charges had been established . Thereafter he issued a notice to the respondent calling upon him to show cause why he should not be dismissed from the police force . On February 20 , 1954 , the respondent sub mitted his explanation and the Superintendent of Police , by his order dated February 22 , 1954 , dismissed the respondent from service with effect from the said date . The appeal preferred by the respondent to the Deputy Inspector General of Police was dismissed by his order dated June 2 , 1954 . Thereafter the respondent on August 5 , 1954 , filed a petition under article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad , Lucknow Bench , for quashing the order of dismissal . Before the High Court three points were raised , namely , ( 1 ) as the petitioner was officiating . as Sub Inspector of Police at the time of the departmental trial the Suprintendent of Police had no power to dismiss him , since an order in such circumstances could only be made by a police officer senior in rank to a Superintendent ; ( 2 ) the trial was vitiated by a number of serious irregularities ; and ( 3 ) the specific acts with which the petitioner was charged were cognizable offences and , therefore , the Superintendent of Police had no jurisdiction to proceed with a departmental trial without complying with the provisions of subparagraph ( 1 ) of para . 486 of the Police Regulations . The learned