. When a rule says that a departmental trial can be held only after a police investigation , it is not permissible to hold that it can be held without such investigation . For all the foregoing reasons , we hold that para . 486 is mandatory and that , as the investigation has not been held under chapter XIV of the Criminal Procedure Code , the subsequent inquiry and the order of dismissal are illegal . For the foregoing reasons we hold that , as the respondent was dismissed without complying with the provisions of para . 486 ( 1 ) , the order of dismissal is illegal and that the High Court is right in setting aside the order of dismissal . In the result , the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs . WANCHOO , J . We regret we are unable to agree that the appeal be dismissed . Babu Ram Upadhya ( respondent ) was a sub inspector of police who was appointed in December , 1948 . In 1953 , he was posted at Sitapur . On September 6 , 1953 , he was returning from a village called Madhwapur , when he saw a man who was subsequently found to be Tika Ram coming from the side of a canal and going hurriedly into a field . The movements of Tika Ram roused his suspicion . One Lalji , an ex patwari , was also with the sub inspector . Tika Ram was called and searched , and a bundle containing currencynotes was found on him . The sub inspector took the bundle and counted the notes and handed them over to Lalji . Lalji in his turn handed over the notes to Tika Ram . Thereafter Tika Ram , who is an old man , almost blind , went away . When he reached his house , he found that there was a shortage of Rs . 250 . He then made a complaint to the Superintendent of Police on September 9 , 1953 , in which he gave the above facts . An inquiry was made by the Superintendent of Police and ultimately , departmental proceedings under section 7 of the were taken 713 against the respondent . These proceedings resulted in his dismissal and thereupon the respondent applied to the High Court under article 226 of the Constitution . The main contention of the respondent was that r. 486 of the Police Regulations framed under section 7 of the was not observed and therefore the departmental proceedings taken against him were illegal . The reply of the appellant was two fold : in the first place , it was urged that r. 486 did not apply as there was no report of a cognizable offence against the sub inspector ; and in the next place , it was urged that the rules contained in the Police Regulations were only administrative rules and even if there was non compliance with any of them , it would not affect the departmental proceedings taken against the respondent , provided there was no breach of the guarantees contained in article 311 of the Constitution . The High Court held that there was a report of a cognizable offence under section 409 of the Indian Penal Code against the respondent and therefore the procedure provided by r. 486 ought to have been followed . It further held that r. 486 had been framed under section 7 of the and was a statutory provision , which had the force of law . As such , following the earlier view taken by the High Court in two other cases it held that a dismissal as a result of departmental proceedings which took place without complying with r. 486 would be illegal . In consequence , the writ petition was allowed . The appellant then applied for a certificate to enable it to appeal to this Court , which was refused . Thereupon special leave was prayed for from this Court , which was granted ; and that is how the matter has come up before us . Mr. C. B. Aggarwala on behalf of the appellant urges the same two points before us . So far as the first point is concerned , we are of opinion that there is no force in it . There is no doubt that in the complaint made by Tika Ram , the name of the respondent was not shown in the heading ; but from the facts disclosed in the body of the complaint it is clear that the sub inspector searched the person of Tika Ram and recovered a bundle containing currency notes . He 714 did so obviously under the authority vested in him as a police officer . When therefore he was satisfied that there was no reason to take any further action against Tika Ram , it was his duty to see that the entire amount taken by him from Tika Ram on search was returned to him ( Tika Ram ) . The High Court was right in the view that where property is taken away with the intention that it will continue to be the property of the person from whose possession it has been taken away , there will be an entrustment of the property to the person taking it away , and if . subsequently the person taking it away converts it to his own use or suffers some other person to do so , there will be criminal breach of trust and not merely criminal misappropriation . Thus an offence under section 409 of the Indian Penal Code appears to have been committed prima facie on the facts of this case . As an offence under section 409 is a cognizable offence , r. 486 of the Police Regulations would apply . This brings us to the main point in the present appeal . Sec . 7 of the under