an investigation under Chapter XIV is not bound to examine the person against whom he is investigating , though there is nothing to prevent him from doing so . Nor is the person against whom an investigation is going on under Chapter XIV bound to make a statement to the police officer . In these circumstances , the purpose of an investigation under Chapter XIV is not relevant under article 311 ( 2 ) which says that a public servant shall not be dismissed without giving him a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard to him . Therefore , r. 486 not being meant for the purpose of carrying out the object of article 311 ( 2 ) can not be mandatory and can not add a further fetter on the exercise of the power to dismiss or remove at the pleasure of the Governor over and above the guarantees contained in article 311 . It appears to us that the object of r. 486 is that the authority concerned should first make a preliminary inquiry to find out if there is a case against the officer complained against either to proceed in a court or to take departmental action . The investigation prescribed by r. 486 is only for this purpose . Incidentally it may be that after such an investigation , the authority concerned may come to the conclusion that there in no case either ' to send the case to court or to hold a departmental inquiry . But that in our opinion is what would happen in any case of complaint against a public servant in any department of Government . No authority entitled to take action against a public servant would straightaway proceed to put the case in court or to hold a departmental inquiry . It seems to us axiomatic if a complaint is received against any public servant of any department , that the authority 727 concerned would first always make some kind of a preliminary inquiry to satisfy itself whether there is any case for taking action at all ; but that is in our opinion for the satisfaction of the authority and has nothing to do with the protection afforded to a public servant under article 311 . Rule 486 of the Police Regulations also in our opinion is meant for this purpose only and not meant to carry out the object contained in article 311 ( 2 ) . The opportunity envisaged by article 311 ( 2 ) will be given to the public servant after the the authority has satisfied itself by preliminary inquiry that there is a case for taking action . Therefore , r. 486 which is only meant to gather materials for the satisfaction of the authority concerned , whether to take action or not , even though a statutory rule can not be considered to be mandatory as that would be forging a further fetter than those contained in article 311 on the power of the Governor to dismiss at pleasure . We are therefore of opinion that r. 486 is only directory and failure to comply with it strictly or otherwise will not vitiate the subsequent proceedings . We may incidentally indicate two further aspects of the matter . In the first place , if the argument is that the Governor must exercise the pleasure himself so that only the two limitations provided in article 311 may come into play ; it appears that the Governor has exercised his pleasure in this case inasmuch as he dismissed the revisional application made to him by the respondent . There appears no reason to hold that the Governor exercises his pleasure only when he passes the original order of dismissal but not otherwise . Secondly the fact that r. 486 contains the word `` shall '' is not decisive on the point that it is mandatory : ( see Crawford on Statutory Construction , p. 519 , para . 262 ) . In view of what we have said already , the context shows that r. 486 can only be directory . If so , failure to observe it strictly or otherwise will not invalidate the subsequent departmental proceedings . This brings us to the last point which has been urged in this case ; and that is whether there was substantial compliance with r. 486 . We have already 728 pointed out that there was no strict compliance with r. 486 as no case wag registered on the complaint of Tika Ram and no investigation was made under Chapter XIV of the Code of Criminal Procedure . But there is no doubt in this case that before the Superintendent of Police gave the charge sheet to the respondent in November , 1953 , which was the beginning of the departmental proceedings against the respondent , he made a preliminary inquiry into the complaint of Tika Ram and was satisfied that there was a case for proceeding against the respondent departmentally . In these circumstances it appears to us that the spirit of r. 486 was substantially complied with and action was only taken against the respondent when on a preliminary inquiry the Superintendent of Police was satisfied that departmental action was necessary . Even if r. 486 had been strictly complied with , this is all that could have happened . In these circumstances we are of opinion that r. 486 which in our opinion is directory was substantially complied with in spirit and therefore the subsequent departmental proceedings can not be held to be illegal , simply because there was no strict compliance with r. 486 . The High Court therefore in our opinion was wrong in holding that the subsequent departmental inquiry was illegal and its order quashing the order of dismissal on this ground alone can not be sustained . We would therefore allow the appeal . BY COURT In accordance with the opinion