) and ( 3 ) of the Government of India Act , 1935 and the two guarantees are the same , ( namely , ( i ) that no person shall be dismissed or removed by an authority subordinate to that by which he was appointed , and ( ii ) no such person shall be dismissed or removed or reduced in rank until he has been given a reason able opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard to him ) . In Parshotam Lal Dhingra vs Union of India ( 1 ) , this Court held that article 311 was in the nature of a proviso to article 310 , that it provides two constitutional guarantees cutting down the pleasure of the President or the Governor , as the case may be , and that it was a mandatory provision which had to be complied with before the pleasure provided in article 310 can be exercised . Mr. Pathak for the respondent urges that in view of the words of article 310 statute or statutory rules can also cut down the nature of the pleasure tenure provided by article 310 in the same way as in England an Act of Parliament cuts down the ambit of His Majesty 's pleasure in the matter of dismissal . He relies on the words `` as expressly provided by this Constitution '' and urges that it is open to the legisla ture to cut down the pleasure tenure by law or to provide for its being affected by statutory rules . In this connection he relies on article 309 as well as article 154 of the Constitution . Now , article 309 begins with the words `` subject to the provisions of this Constitution '' land lays down that `` Acts of the appropriate Legislature may regulate the recruitment , and conditions of ( 1 ) ; 720 service of person appointed , to public services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union or of any State '' . The proviso to article 309 lays down that `` it shall be competent for the President or the Governor as the case may be to make rules relating to recruitment and conditions of service until provision in that behalf is made by or under an Act of the appropriate Legislature '' . It will be clear immediately that article 309 is subject to the provisions of the Constitution and therefore subject to article 310 and therefore , any law passed or rules framed under article 309 must be subject to article 310 and can not in any way affect the pleasure tenure laid down in article 310 . The words `` except as expressly provided by this Constitution '' appearing in article 310 clearly show that the only exceptions to the pleasure tenure are those expressly contained in the Constitution and no more . These exceptions , for example , are contained inter alia in articles 124 . 148 , 280 and 324 and also in article 310 ( 2 ) . Therefore , unless there is an express provision in the Constitution cutting down the pleasure tenure , every public servant holds office during the pleasure of the President or the Governor , as the case may be . We can not accept the argument that a law passed under article 309 prescribing conditions of service would become an express provision of the Constitution and would thus cut down the pleasure tenure contained in article 310 . As the Privy Council pointed in Venkata Rao 's case ( 1 ) , the rules framed under article 309 or the laws passed thereunder amount to a statutory and solemn assurance that the tenure of office though at pleasure will not be subject to capricious or arbitrary action but will be regulated by rule . But if the rules or the law define the content of the guarantee contained in article 311 ( 2 ) they may to that extent be mandatory but only because they carry out the guarantee contained in article 311 ( 2 ) . Excepting this , any law or rule framed under article 309 can not cut down the pleasure tenure as provided in article 310 . The same in our opinion applies to a law passed under article 154 ( 2 ) ( b ) which authorises Parliament or the legislature of a State to confer functions on any ( 1 ) ( 1936 ) L.R . 64 I.A . 55 . 721 authority subordinate to the Governor . If any law is passed conferring on any authority the power to dismiss or remove or reduce in rank , that law can not cut down the content of the pleasure tenure as contained in article 310 ; that law would be passed under article 245 and that article also begins with the words `` subject to the provisions of this Constitution '' . Therefore , the law passed under article 154 ( 2 ) ( b ) would also in the same way as the law under article 309 be subject to the pleasure tenure contained in article 310 and can not cut down the content of that tenure or impose any further fetters on it except those contained in article 311 . The position therefore that emerges from the examination of the relevant Articles of the Constitution is that all public servants other than those who are excepted expressly by the provisions of the Constitution hold office during the pleasure of the President or the Governor , as the case may be , and that no law or rule passed or framed under article 309 or article 154 ( 2 ) ( b ) can cut down the content of the pleasure tenure as contained in article 310 subject to article 311 . With this basic position in our Constitution , let us turn to the with which