which r. 486 has been framed is in these terms : `` Subject to such rules as the State Government may from time to time make under this Act , the Inspector General , Deputy Inspectors General , Assistant Inspectors General and District Superintendents of Police may at any time dismiss , suspend or reduce any police officer of the subordinate ranks whom they shall think remiss or negligent in the discharge of his duty or unfit for the same ; or may award any one or more , of the following punishments to any police officer of the subordinate ranks , who shall discharge his duty in a careless or negligent manner , or who , by any act of his own shall render himself unfit for the discharge thereof , name ( a ) fine to any amount not exceeding one month 's pay ; ( b ) confinement to quarters for a term not exceeding fifteen days , with or without punishment , drill , extra guard , fatigue or other duty ; ( c ) deprivation of good conduct pay ; 715 ( d ) removal from any office of distinction or special emolument ; '' . It gives power to four grades of police officers to dismiss , suspend or reduce any police officer of the subordinate ranks whom they think remiss or negligent in the discharge of his duty or unfit for the same . It also provides for infliction of four other kinds of punishment by these four grades of officers on any police officer of the subordinate ranks who discharges his duty in a careless or negligent manner or who by any act of his own renders himself unfit for the discharge thereof . In the present case we are concerned with dismissal and what we shall say hereafter should be taken to be confined to a case of dismissal . Sec tion 7 shows that the power of dismissal conferred by it on the four grades of police officers is to be exercised subject to such rules as the State Government may from time to time make under the . The contention on behalf of the respondent is that the power of dismissal has to be exercised subject to rules and therefore , when r. 486 of the Police Regulations ( framed under section 7 ) provided a certain procedure to be followed with respect to cases in which a cognizable offence was involved it was not open to the authority concerned to disregard that procedure . In effect , it is urged that r. 486 is a mandatory provision and non compliance with it would invalidate the departmental proceedings . It is not in dispute in this case that the procedure provided by r. 486 was not followed . That procedural provision is that where a report of a cognizable crime is made against a police officer belonging to the subordinate ranks , it has to be registered as provided in Chapter XIV of the Code of Criminal Procedure and investigated as provided thereunder . Thereafter the authority concerned has to decide whether to send the case for trial before a court of law or to take departmental proceedings . In this case no report was registered as provided under Chapter XIV of the Code of Criminal Procedure and no investigation was made as provided in that Chapter . All that happened was that the Superintendent of Police to whom Tika Ram had complained inquired into the 716 complaint of Tika Ram and thereafter decided to hold a departmental inquiry under section 7 of the against the respondent . The main contention on behalf of the appellant is that the Rules framed under section 7 of the are administrative rules and in any case they are only directory and non compliance with them would not vitiate the subsequent proceedings unless there is a breach of the guarantee contained in article 311 of the Constitution , as all public servants hold their office at the pleasure of the President or the Governor , as the case may be , other than those expressly excepted under the Constitution . Reliance in this connection is placed on the case of R. Venkata Rao vs Secretary of State for India in Council ( 1 ) . This brings us to a consideration of the tenure on which public servants hold office . The position in England is that all public servants hold office at the pleasure of His Majesty , that is to say , their service was terminable at any time without amuse : ( see Shenton vs Smith ( 2 ) ) . By law , however , it is open to Parliament to prescribe a different tenure and the King being a party to every Act of Parliament is understood to have accepted the change in the tenure when he gives assent to such law : ( see Gould vs Stuart ( 3 ) ) . This principle applied in India also before the Government of India Act , 1915 , was amended by the addition of section 96 B therein . Section 96 B for the first time provided by statute that every person in the civil service of the Crown held office during His Majesty 's pleasure , subject to the provisions of the Government of India Act and the rules made thereunder and the only protection to a public servant against the exercise of pleasure was that he could not be dismissed by any authority subordinate to that by which he was appointed . It was this section , which came for consideration before the Privy Council in Venkata Rao 's case ( 1 ) and the Privy Council held that in spite of the words `` .subject to the rules made under the Government of India Act , '' Venkata Rao 's employment was not of a ( 1 ) ( 1936 ) L.R . 64 I.A