Appeal No . 119 of 1959 . Appeal by special leave from the judgment and order dated January 9 , 1958 , of the Allahabad High Court ( Lucknow Bench ) , Lucknow , in Civil Misc . Application No . 115 of 1955 . 683 C. B. Agarwala and C. P. Lal , for the appellants . G. section Pathak , Achru Ram , section N. Andley , Rameshwar Nath , J . B. Dadachanji and P. L. Vohra for the respondent . November , 25 . The Judgment of Sarkar , Subba Rao and Mudholkar , JJ. , was delivered by Subba Rao , J. , and that of Gajendragadkar and Wanchoo , JJ. , was delivered by Wanchoo , J. SUBBA RAO , J . This is an appeal by special leave against the judgment of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad , Lucknow Bench , allowing the petition filed by the respondent under article 226 of the Constitution . The respondent was appointed a Sub Inspector of Police in December , 1948 , and was posted at Sitapur in June , 1953 . On September 6 , 1953 , the respondent went to village Madhwapur in connection with an investigation of a case of theft . On the evening of the said date when he was returning , accompanied by one Lalji , an ex patwari of Mohiuddinpur , he saw one Tika Ram coming from the side of a canal and going hurriedly towards a field . As the movements of Tika Ram appeared to be suspicious and as he was carrying something in the folds of his dhoti , the respondent searched him and found a bundle containing currency notes . The respondent counted the currency notes and handed them over to Lalji for being returned to Tika Ram , who subsequently got them and went his way . Subsequently when Tika Ram counted the currency notes at his house , he found that they were short by Rs . 250 . Tika Ram 's case is that the bundle when taken by the respondent contained notes of the value of Rs . 650 , but when he counted them in his house they were only of the value of Rs . 400 . On September 9 , 1953 Tika Ram filed a complaint to the Superintendent of Police , Sitapur , to the effect that the respondent and one Lalji had misappropriated a sum of its . There is dispute in regard to the interpretation of the complaint . On receipt of the said complaint , the Superintendent of Police made enquiries 684 and issued a notice to the respondent to show cause why his integrity certificate should not be withheld , upon which the respondent submitted his explanation on October 3 , 1953 . Thereafter the Superintendent of Police forwarded the file of the case to the Deputy Inspector General of Police , Central Range , U. P. , who directed the Superintendent of Police to take proceedings under section 7 of the Police Act against the respondent . The departmental proceedings were started against the respondent ; on November 2 , 1953 , a charge sheet was served upon the respondent under section 7 of the Police Act stating that there were strong reasons to suspect that the respondent misappropriated a sum of Rs . 250 from the purse of Tika Ram ; the respondent filed his explanation to the charge made against him ; and ultimately the Superintendent of Police held an enquiry and found on the evidence that the respondent was guilty of the offence with which he was charged . On January 2 , 1954 , the Superin tendent of Police issued another notice to the respondent to show cause why he should not be reduced to the lowest grade of Sub Inspector for a period of three years . In due course the respondent showed cause against the action proposed to be taken against him on a consideration of which the Superintendent of Police , Sitapur , by his order dated January 16 , 1954 reduced the respondent to the lowest grade of Sub Inspector for a period of three years . When this order came to the notice of the D. 1 . G. , U. P. , on a consideration of the entire record , he came to the con clusion that the respondent should be dismissed from service and on October 19 , 1954 he made an order to that effect . On February 28 , 1955 the Inspector General of Police confirmed that order ; and the revision filed by the respondent against that order to the State Government was also dismissed in August 1955 . Thereafter the respondent filed a petition under article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad , Lucknow Bench , for quashing the said orders and the same was heard by a division bench consisting of Randhir Singh and Bhargava , JJ . The learned judges held that the provisions of para . 685 486 of the Police Regulations had not been observed and , therefore , the proceedings taken under section 7 of the Police Act were invalid and illegal . On that finding , they quashed the impugned orders ; with the result that the order dismissing the respondent from service was set aside . The State Government , the Deputy Inspector General of Police , Lucknow , and the Inspector General of Police , Uttar Pradesh , Lucknow , have preferred the present appeal against the said order of the High Court . We shall now proceed to consider the various contentions raised by learned counsel in the order they were raised and argued before us . At the outset Mr. C. B. Agarwala , learned counsel for the appellants , contended that there was no breach of the provisions of para . 486 of the Police Regulations .