; with the result that the power of the Legislature to lay down the conditions of service of persons appointed to public services would be subject to `` the tenure at pleasure '' under article 310 . In that event , any law made by the Legislature could not affect the over riding power of the President or the Governor , as the case may be , in putting an end to the tenure at their pleasure . Would the opening words of the clause in article 310 , namely , `` Except as expressly provided by this Constitution '' , make any difference in the matter of interpretation ? It should be noticed that the phraseology of the said clause in article 310 is different from that in article 309 . If there is a specific provision in some part of the Constitution giving to a Government servant a tenure different from that provided for in article 310 , that Government servant is excluded from the operation of article 310 . The said words refer , inter alia , to articles 124 , 148 , 218 and 324 which provide that the Judges of the Supreme Court , the Auditor General , the Judges of the High Courts and the Chief Election Commissioner shall not be removed from their offices except in the manner laid down in those Articles . If the provisions of the Constitution specifically prescribing different tenures were excluded from article 310 , the purpose of that clause would be exhausted and thereafter the Article would be free from any other restrictive operation . In that event , articles 309 and 310 should be read together , excluding the opening words in the latter Article , namely , `` Except as expressly provided by this Constitution '' . Learne counsel seeks to confine the operation of the opening words in article 309 to the provisions of the Constitution which empower other authorities to make rules relating to the conditions of service of certain classes of public servants , namely , articles 146 ( 2 ) , 148 ( 5 ) and 229 ( 2 ) . That may be so , but there is no reason why article 310 should be excluded therefrom . It follows that while article 310 provides for a tenure at pleasure 696 of the President or the Governor , article 309 enables the Legislature or the executive , as the case maybe , to make any law or rule in regard , inter alia , to conditions of service without impinging upon the overriding power recognized under article 310 . Learned counsel for the respondent contends that this construction is inconsistent with that prevailing in the English law and that the intention of the framers of the Constitution could not have been to make a radical departure from the law of England . The law of England on the doctrine of `` tenure at pleasure '' has now become fairly crystallized . In England , all servants of the Crown hold office during the pleasure of the Crown ; the right to dismiss at pleasure is an implied term in every contract of employment of the Crown , this doctrine is not based upon any prerogative of the Crown , but on public policy ; if the terms of appointment definitely prescribe a tenure for good behaviour or expressly provide for a power , to determine for a cause , such an implication of a power to dismiss at pleasure is excluded , and an Act of Parliament can abrogate or amend the said doctrine of public policy in the same way as it can do in respect of any other part of common law . The said propositions are illustrated in the following decisions : Shenton vs Smith ( 1 ) , Gould vs Stuart ( 2 ) , Reilly vs The King ( 3 ) , Terrell vs Secretary of State ( 4 ) . This English doctrine was not incorporated in its entirety in the Indian enactments vide State of Bihar vs Abdul Majid ( 5 ) , Parshotam Lal Dhingra vs Union of India ( 6 ) . Section 96 B of the Government of India Act , 1915 , for the first time in 1919 , by amendment , statutorily recognized this doctrine , but it was made subject to a condition or s qualification , namely , that no person in that service might be dismissed by any authority subordinate to that by which he was appointed . Section 240 of the Act of 1935 imposed another limitation , namely , that a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be taken in ( i ) ( 3 ) ( 5 ) ; ( 2 ) ( 4 ) ( 6 ) ; 697 regard to a person must be given to him . But neither of the two Acts empowered the appropriate Legislature to make a law abolishing or amending the said doctrine . The Constitution of India practically incorporated the provisions of sections 240 and 241 of the Act of 1935 in articles 309 and 310 . But the Constitution has not made `` the tenure at pleasure '' subject to any law made by the appropriate Legislature . On the other hand , as we have pointed out , article 309 is expressly made subject to `` the tenure at pleasure '' in article 310 . Nor the attempt of learned counsel for the respondent to discover such a power in the Legislature in the Entries of the appropriate Lists of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution can be legally sustained . He referred , inter alia , to Entry 70 of List I and Entry 41 of List II . It is not disputed that Parliament can make law for the organization of the police and for the prevention and detection of crime . But under article 245