of the Constitution such a power is subject to the provisions of the Constitution and , therefore , is subject to the provisions of article 310 . Nor can we imply such a power in Parliament or the Legislatures from article 154 ( 2 ) ( b ) of the Constitution . Under article 154 , `` the executive power of the State shall be vested in the Governor and shall be exercised by him either directly or through officers subordinate to him in accordance with this Constitution '' , and under el . 2 ( b ) thereof , `` nothing in this Article shall prevent Parliament or the Legislature of the State from conferring by law functions on any authority subordinate to the Governor. '' The argument is that a power to terminate the service at pleasure under article 310 is a part of the executive power of the State , that power under article 154 can be exercised by the Governor directly or through officers subordinate to him , and that under article 154 ( 2 ) ( b ) the Parliament or the Legislature of the State can confer the same power on any authority subordinate to the Governor or , at any rate , can make a law prescribing that the Governor shall exercise the said pleasure through a particular officer . 698 We can not agree either with the premises or the conclusion sought to be based on it . The first question is whether the power of the Governor under article 310 to terminate the services of a Government servant at pleasure is part of the executive power of the State under article 154 of the Constitution . Article 154 speaks of the executive power of the State vesting in the Governor ; it does not deal with the constitutional powers of the Governor which do not form part of the executive power of the State . Article 162 says that , subject to the provisions of the Constitution , the executive power of the State shall extend to matters with respect to which the Legislature of the State has power to make laws . If the Legislature of the State has no power to make a law affecting the tenure at pleasure of the Governor , the said power must necessarily fall outside the scope of the executive power of the State . As we will presently show , the Legislature has no such power and , therefore , it can not be a part of the executive power of the State . That apart , if the said power is part of the executive power in its general sense , article 162 imposes another limitation on that power , namely , that the said executive power is subject to the provisions of the Constitution and therefore , subject to article 310 of the Constitution . In either view , article 310 falls outside the scope of article 154 of the Constitution . That power may be analogous to that conferred on the Governor under articles 174 , 175 and 176 . Doubtless the Governor may have to exercise the said power whenever an occasion arises , in the manner prescribed by the Constitution , but that in itself does not make it a part of the executive power of the State or enable him to delegate his power . Even on the assumption that the power under article 310 is executive power within the meaning of article 154 , it does not make any difference in the legal position so far as the present case is concerned . Article 310 of the Constitution says that unless expresssly provided by the Constitution to the contrary , every civil servant holds office during the pleasure of the Governor subject to the limitations prescribed under 699 article 311 . Can it be said that article 154 ( 2 ) ( b ) expressly provides for a different tenure ? Can it be said that the said Article confers on the Parliament or the Legislature a power higher than that conferred on them under article 245 of the Constitution ? It only preserves the power of the Legislature , which it has under the Constitution , to make a law conferring functions on an authority subordinate to the Governor . That power under article 245 is not unlimited , but is subject to the provisions of the Constitution and there fore subject to article 310 thereof . It is then said that if the appellants ' contention were not accepted , it would lead to conflict of jurisdiction : while the Governor has the power under article 310 to dismiss a public servant at his pleasure , a statute may confer a power on a subordinate officer to dismiss a servant only subject to conditions ; a subordinate officer functioning under an Act may not be able to dismiss a servant , but the Governor may be able to do so under similar circumstances ; a subordi nate officer may dismiss a servant , but the Governor may order his continuance in office . This argument is based upon the misapprehension of the scope of article 309 of the Constitution . A law made by the appropriate Legislature or the rules made by the President or the Governor , as the case may be , under the said Article may confer a power upon a particular authority to remove a public servant from service ; but the conferment of such a power does not amount to a delegation of the Governor 's pleasure . Whatever the said authority does is by virtue of express power conferred on it by a statute or rules made by competent authorities and not by virtue of any delegation by the Governor of his power . There can not be conflict between the exercise of the Governor 's pleasure under article 310 and that of an authority under a statute