. 55 ( 2 ) ( 3 ) 717 limited and special kind during pleasure with an added contractual term that the procedure prescribed , by the Rules must be observed ; it was by the express terms of section 96 B held `` during His Majesty 's pleasure '' and no right of action as claimed by Venkata Rao existed . The Privy Council further held that the terms of section 96 B assured that the tenure of office , though at pleasure , would not be subject to capricious or arbitrary action but would be regulated by the rules which were manifold in number , most minute in particularity and all capable of change ; but there was no right in the public servant enforceable by action to hold his office in accordance with those rules and he could therefore be dismissed notwithstanding the failure to observe the procedure prescribed by them . The main point which was urged in Venkata Rao 's case ( 1 ) was that under r. XIV of the Civil Services Classification Rules no public servant could be dismissed , removed or reduced in rank except after a properly recorded departmental inquiry . In Venkata Rao 's case ( 1 ) the departmental inquiry prescribed by the rules was found not to have been held . Even so , the Privy Council held that the words used in section 96 B could not and did not cut down the pleasure of His Majesty by rules though it was observed that the terms of the section contained a statutory and solemn assurance , that the tenure of office , though at pleasure. , would not be subject to capricious or arbitrary , action , but would be regulated by rule . It was further added that supreme care should be taken that this assurance is carried out in the letter and in the spirit . The Privy Council further held that in ' the case before it , there had been a serious and complete failure to adhere to important and indeed fundamental rules , and mistakes of a serious kind had been made and wrongs had been done which called for redress ; even so ; they were of the view that as a matter of law that redress was not obtainable from courts by action . , . This was the position under the Government of India Act 1915 . There was however a material change in the Government of India Act , 1935 . So far , there ( 1 ) ( 1936 ) L.R . 64 I . A . 55 . 91 718 was one protection to a public servant , namely , that he could not be dismissed by an authority subordinate to that by which he was appointed . In the Government of India Act , 1935 , section 240 ( 1 ) laid down that `` except as expressly provided by this Act , every person who is a member of a civil service of the Crown in India . holds office during His Majesty 's pleasure. '' The words of this section are different from those of section 96 B and the tenure of all public servants other than those expressly provided for was to be during His Majesty 's pleasure . There were , however , two safeguards provided by sub sections ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of section 240 . The first was the same ( namely , that no public servant will be dismissed by an officer subordinate to that who appointed him ) ; but a further exception was added to the pleasure tenure , namely , no public servant shall be dismissed until he has been given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard to him . This protection came to be considered by the Privy Council in High Commissioner for India and High Commissioner for Pakistan vs 1 . M. Lall ( 1 ) and it was held that it was a mandatory provision and qualified the pleasure tenure and provided a condition precedent to the exercise of power by His Majesty provided by sub section ( 1 ) of section 240 . Thus by the Government of India Act , 1935 , there were two statutory guarantees to public servants against the exercise of the pleasure of his Majesty ; but it is clear from section 240 of the Government of India Act , 1935 , that the pleasure of His Majesty to dismiss was not otherwise subject to rules framed under the subsequent provisions of the Government of India Act appearing in Chapter 11 of Part X dealing with public services . This position continued till we come to the Constitution . Article 310 ( 1 ) of the Constitution provides for what was contained in section 240 ( 1 ) of the Government of India Act , 1935 , and is in these terms : `` ( 1 ) Except as expressly provided by this Constitution , every person who is a member of a defence ( 1 ) ( 1948 ) L.R . 75 I.A . 225 . 719 service or of a civil service of the Union or of an all India service or holds any post connected with defence , or any civil post under the Union , holds office during the pleasure of the President , and every person who is a member of a civil service of a State or holds any civil post under a State holds office during the pleasure of the Governor of the State. '' It will be clear therefore that all public servants except as expressly provided by the Constitution hold their office during the pleasure of the President or the Governor , as the case may be . Article 311 then provides for two guarantees and is similar in terms to section 240 ( 2