. Paragraph 486 of the Police Regulations makes this clear . It says that when the offence alleged against a police officer amounts to an offence only under section 7 of the Police Act , there can be no magisterial inquiry under the Criminal Procedure Code . This part of the rule applies to an offence only under section 7 of the Police Act i. e. , the first category mentioned above . Rule I refers to a cognizable offence i. e. , the second category , rule 11 to a non cognizable offence i. e. , the third category , and rule III applies to an offence under section 7 of the Police Act and to a noncognizable offence . Though the word `` only '' is not mentioned in rule 111 , the offence under section 7 of the Police Act can , in the context , mean an offence only under section 7 of the said Act i.e. , an offence falling under the first category . So understood , the three rules can be reconciled . We , therefore , hold that , as the offence complained of in the present case is a cognizable offence , it falls under rule I and not under rule 111 . We , therefore , reject this contention . The third contention advanced by learned counsel for the appellants raises a constitutional point of considerable importance . The gist of the argument may be stated thus : In England , the service under the Crown is held at the Crown 's pleasure , unless the employment is for good behaviour or for a cause . But if there is a statute prescribing the terms of service and the mode of dismissal of the servant of the Crown , the statute would control the pleasure of the Crown . In India , the Constitution as well as the 691 earlier Constitution Acts of 1915 , as amended in 1919 , and 1935 embodied the incidents of `` tenure at pleasure '' of His Majesty , or the President or the Governor , as the case may be , but did not empower the Legislatures under the earlier Acts and the Parliament and the Legislatures under the Constitution to make a law abrogating or modifying the said tenure ; therefore , any law made by appropriate authorities conferring a power on any subordinate officer to dismiss a servant must be construed not to limit the power of His Majesty , the President or the Governor , as the case may be , but only to indicate that they would express their pleasure only through the said officers . The rules made in exercise of a power conferred on a Government under a statute so delegating the power to a subordinate officer can only be administrative directions to enable the exercise of the pleasure by the concerned authorities in a reasonable manner and that any breach of those regulations can not possibly confer any right on , or give a cause of action to , the aggrieved Government servant to go to a court of law and vindicate his rights . Mr. Pathak , learned counsel for the respondent , in countering this argument contends that the constitution Acts in India embodied the incidents of the tenure of the Crown 's pleasure in the relevant provisions and what the Parliament can do in England , the appropriate Legislatures in India also can do , that is , `` the tenure at pleasure '' created by the Constitution Acts can be abrogated , limited or modified by law enacted by the appropriate legislative bodies . Alternatively he contends that even if the Police Act does not curtail the tenure at pleasure , the Legislature validly made that law and the Government validly made statutory rules in exercise of the powers confered under that Act and that , therefore , the appropriate authorities can only dismiss the respondent in strict compliance with the provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder . To appreciate the problem presented and to afford a satisfactory answer it would be convenient to consider the relevant provisions . The Act we are concerned with in this case is the ( Act V 692 of 1861 ) . Its constitutional validity at the time it was , made was not questioned . Under section 7 of the , as it originally stood , `` the appointment of all police officers other than those mentioned in B . 4 of this Act shall , under such rules as the local Government shall from time to time sanction , rest with the Inspector General , Deputy Inspectors General , Assistant Inspectors General and District Superintendents of Police , who may , under such rules as aforesaid , at any time , dismiss , suspend or reduce any police officer. '' That section was substituted by the present section in 1937 and later on some appropriate amend ments were made to bring it in conformity with the Constitution . Under the amended section , `` Subject to such rules as the State Government may from time to time make under this Act , the Inspector General , Deputy Inspectors General , Assistant Inspectors General and District Superintendent of Police may at any time dismiss , suspend or reduce any police officer of the subordinate ranks whom they shall think remiss or negligent in the discharge of his duty , or unfit for the same '' . In exercise of the powers conferred on the Government by section 46 of the Act , the Government made the U. P. Police Regulations prescribing the procedure for investigation and inquiry . We shall ' deal with the Regulations at a later stage . In the Government of India Act , 1915 , as amended by the Act of 1919 , for the first time , the doctrine of `` tenure at pleasure '' was introduced