and that the use of the word `` shall '' does not conclude the matter. '' It is then observed : `` They ( the rules ) are well known , and there is no need to repeat them . But they are all of them only aids for ascertaining the true intention of the legislature which is the determining factor , and that must ultimately depend on the context. '' The following quotation from Crawford `` On the Construction of Statutes '' , at p. 516 , is also helpful in this connection : `` The question as to whether a statute is mandatory or directory depends upon the intent of the legislature and not upon the language in which the intent is clothed . The meaning and intention of the legislature must govern , and these are to be ascertained , not only from the phraseology of the provision , but also by considering its nature , its design , and the ( 1 ) ; 90 710 consequences which would follow from construing it the one way or the other. `` This passage was approved by this Court in State of U. P. vs Manbodhan Lal Srivastava ( 1 ) . In Craies on Statute Law , 5th edition , the following passage appears at p. 242 : `` No universal rule can be laid down as to whether mandatory enactments shall be considered directory only or obligatory with an implied nullification for disobedience . It is the duty of Courts of Justice to try to get at the real intention of the Legislature by carefully attending to the whole scope of the statute to be construed. '' A valuable guide for ascertaining the intention of the Legislature is found in Maxwell on `` The Interpretation of Statutes '' , 10th edition , at p. 381 and it is : `` On the other hand , where the prescriptions of a statute relate to the performance of a public duty and where the invalidation of acts done in neglect of them would work serious general inconvenience or injustice to persons who have no control over those entrusted with the duty without promoting the essential aims of the legislature , such prescriptions seem to be generally understood as mere instructions for the guidance and government of those on whom the duty is imposed , or , in other words , as directory only . The neglect of them may be penal , indeed , but it does not affect the validity of the act done in disregard of them. '' This passage was accepted by the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in the case of Montreal Street Railway Company vs Normandin ( 2 ) and by this Court in State of U. P. vs Manbodhan Lal Srivastava ( 1 ) . The relevant rules of interpretation may be briefly stated thus : When a statute uses the word `` shall '' , prima facie , it is mandatory , but the Court may ascertain the real intention of the legislature by carefully attending to the whole scope of the statute . For ascertaining the real intention of the Legislature the Court may consider , inter alia , the nature and the design of the statute , and the consequences which ( 1 ) ; , 545 . ( 2 ) L.R . [ 1917 ] A.C.770 . 711 would follow from construing it the one way or the other , the impact of other provisions whereby the necessity of complying with the provisions in question is avoided , the circumstance , namely , that the statute provides for a contingency of the non compliance with the provisions , the fact that the non compliance with the provisions is or is not visited by some penalty , the serious or trivial consequences that flow therefrom , and , above all , whether the object of the legislation will be defeated or furthered . Now what is the object of rule I of para . 486 of the Police Regulations ? In our opinion , it is conceived not only to enable the Superintendent of Police to gather information but also to protect the interests of subordinate officers against whom departmental trial is sought to be held . After making the necessary investigation under chapter XIV of the Criminal Procedure Code , the Superintendent of Police may as well come to the conclusion that the officer concerned is innocent , and on that basis drop the entire proceedings . He may also hold that it is a fit case for criminal prosecution , which , under certain circumstances , an honest officer against whom false charges are framed may prefer to face than to submit himself to a departmental trial . Therefore , the rules are conceived in the interest of the department as well as the officer . From the stand point of the department as well as the officer against whom departmental inquiry is sought to be intiated , the preliminary inquiry is very important and it serves a real purpose . Here the setting aside of the order of dismissal will not affect the public in general and the only consequence will be that the officer will have to be proceeded against in the manner prescribed by the rules . What is more , para . 487 and para . 489 make it abundantly clear that the police investigation under the Criminal Procedure Code is a condition precedent for the departmental trial . Paragraph 477 emphasizes that no officer appointed under section 2 of the shall be punished by executive order otherwise than in the manner provided under chapter XXXII of the Police Regulations . This is an imperative injunction prohibiting 712 inquiry in non compliance with the rules . Paragraph 489 only empowers the holding of a departmental trial in regard to a police officer only after a police investigation under the Criminal Procedure Code