1 ) of section 240 . This decision only adopted the reasoning in the earlier decision . The remarks made by us in connection with Venkata Rao 's case ( 2 ) would equally apply to this decision . This Court in section A. Venkataraman 's case ( 4 ) incidentally noticed the observations of the Judicial Committee in Venkata Rao 's case ( 2 ) and observed that the rules , which were not incorporated in a statute , did not impose any legal restriction upon the right of the Crown to dismiss its servants at pleasure . This Court was not laying down any general proposition , but was only stating the gist of the reasoning in Venkata Rao 's case ( 2 ) . Das , C.J. , if we may say so , correctly stated the scope of the rule in Venkata Rao 's case ( 2 ) in the decision in Khem Chand 's case ( 5 ) , when he stated at p. 1091 `` The position of the Government servant was , therefore , rather insecure , for his office being held during the pleasure of the Crown under the Government of India Act , 1915 , the rules could not override ( 1 ) ( 1936 ) L.R . 64 I.A . 40 . ( 3 ) ( 1948 ) L.R . 75 I.A . 225 . ( 2 ) ( 1936 ) L.R . 64 I.A . 55 . ( 4 ) ; ( 5 ) ; 705 or derogate from the statute and the protection of the rules could not be enforced by action so as to nullify the statute itself . '' To state it differently , the Government of India Act , 1915 , as amended in 1919 , and that of 1935 expressly and clearly laid down that the tenure was at pleasure and therefore the rules framed under that Act must be consistent with the Act and not in derogation of it . These decisions and the observations made therein could not be understood to mark a radical departure from the fundamental principle of construction that rules made under a statute must be treated as exactly as if they were in the Act and are of the same effect as if contained in the Act . There is another principle equally fundamental to the rules of construction , namely , that the rules shall be consistent with the provisions of the Act . The decisions of the Judicial Committee on the provisions of the earlier Constitution Acts can be sustained on the ground that the rules made in exercise of power conferred under the Acts can not override or modify the tenure at pleasure provided by section 96B or section 240 of the said Acts , as the case may be . Therefore , when the paramountcy of the doctrine was conceded or declared by the statute , there might have been justification for sustaining the rules made under that statute in derogation thereof on the ground that they were only administrative directions , for otherwise the rules would have to be struck down as inconsistent with the Act . In such a situation , if the statute was valid it would be valid in so far as it did not derogate from the provisions of article 310 , read with article 311 the rules made thereunder would be as efficacious as the Act itself . So long as the statute and the rules made thereunder do not affect the power of the Governor in the present case the Governor 's pleasure is expressly preserved they should be legally enforceable . In this context the decisions of the different High Courts in India are cited at the Bar . It would not serve any purpose to consider every one of them in detail . It would suffice if their general trend be noticed . They express two divergent views : one line relies upon the observations 706 of the Privy Council in Venkata Rao 's case ( 1 ) and lays down that all statutory rules vis a vis the disciplinary proceedings taken against a Government servant are administrative directions , and the other applies the well settled rules of construction and holds that the appropriate authority is bound to comply with the mandatory provisions of the rules in making an inquiry under a particular statute . A close scrutiny of some of the decisions discloses a distinction implied , though not expressed , between statutory rules defining the scope of reasonable opportunity and those governing other procedural steps in the disciplinary process . In our view , subject to the overriding power of the President or the Governor under article 310 , as qualified by the provisions of article 311 , the rules governing disciplinary proceedings can not be treated as administrative directions , but shall have the same effect as the provisions of the statute whereunder they are made , in so far a , , they are not inconsistent with the provisions thereof We have already negatived the contention of learned counsel that the Governor exercises his pleasure through the officers specified in section 7 of the , and therefore , it is not possible to equate the Governor 's pleasure with that of the specified officers ' statutory power . If so , it follows that the inquiry under the Act shall be made in accordance with its provisions and the rules made thereunder . Then learned counsel contends that even if the said rules have statutory force , they are only directory and the non compliance with the rules will not invalidate the order of dismissal made by the appropriate authority . Before we consider the principles governing the question whether the rules are mandatory or directory , it would be convenient at this stage to notice broadly the scope and the purpose of the inquiry contemplated by the rules .