33 as it was before the amendment and therefore the tribunal would have jurisdiction to entertain the complaint dated May 6 , 1957 , under section 33 A of the Act . On the second point , the High Court held that the order of the tribunal granting interim relief was within its jurisdiction and was justified . In consequence , the writ petition was dismissed . Thereupon the appellant mills applied and was granted a certificate by the High Court to appeal to this Court ; and that is how the matter has come up before us . The same two points which were raised in the High Court have been urged before us . We are of opinion that it is not necessary in the present case to decide the first point because we have come to the conclusion that the interim order of May 16 , 1957 , is manifestly erroneous in law and can not be supported . Apart from the question whether the tribunal had jurisdiction 596 to pass an interim order like this without making an interim award , ( a point which was considered and left open by this Court in The Management of Hotel Imperial vs Hotel Workers ' Union ( 1 ) ) , we are of opinion that where the tribunal is dealing with an application under section 33 A of the Act and the question before it is whether an order of dismissal is against the provisions of section 33 it would be wrong in law for the tribunal to grant reinstatement or full wages in case the employer did not take the workman back in its service as an interim measure . It is clear that in case of a complaint under section 33 A based on dismissal against the provisions of section 33 , the final order which the tribunal can pass in case it is in favour of the workman , would be for reinstatement . That final order would be passed only if the employer fails to justify the dismissal before the tribunal , either by showing that proper domestic inquiry was held which established the misconduct or in case no domestic inquiry was held by producing evidence before the tribunal to justify the dismissal : See Punjab National Bank Ltd. vs All India Punjab National Bank Employees ' Federation ( 2 ) , where it was held that in an inquiry under section 33 A , the employee would not succeed in obtaining an order of reinstatement merely by proving contravention of section 33 by the employer . After such contravention is proved it would still be open to the employer to justify the impugned dismissal on the merits . That is a part of the dispute which the tribunal has to consider because the complaint made by the employee is to be treated as an industrial dispute and all the relevant aspects of the said dispute fall to be considered under section 33 A . Therefore , when a tribunal is considering a complaint under section 33 A and it has finally to decide whether an employee should be reinstated or not , it is not open to the tribunal to order reinstatement as an interim relief , for that would be giving the workman the very relief which he could get only if on a trial of the complaint the employer failed to justify the order of dismissal . The interim relief ordered in this case was that the work ( 1 ) ; ( 2 ) ; 597 man should be permitted to work : in other words he was ordered to be reinstated ; in the alternative it was ordered that if the management did not take him back they should pay him his full wages . We are of opinion that such an order can not be passed in law as an interim relief , for that would amount to giving the , respondent at the outset the relief to which he would be entitled only if the employer failed in the proceedings under section 33 A . As was pointed out in Hotel Imperial 's case ( 1 ) , ordinarily , interim relief should not be the whole relief that the workmen would get if they succeeded finally . The order therefore of the tribunal in this case allowing reinstatement as an interim relief or in lieu thereof payment of full wages is manifestly erroneous and must therefore be set aside . We therefore allow the appeal , set aside the order of the High Court as well as of the tribunal dated May 16 , 1957 , granting interim relief . Learned counsel for the respondent submitted to us that we should grant some interim relief in case we came to the conclusion that the order of the tribunal should be set aside . In the circumstances of this case we do not think that interim relief to the respondent is justified hereafter . As we have pointed above , applications under sections 33 and 33 A should be dealt with expeditiously . We trust that the applications dated September 4 , 1956 , which appears to have been overlooked and of May 6 , 1957 , will now be dealt with expeditiously and finally disposed of by the tribunal , as all applications under section 33 A should be . In the circumstances we pass no order as to costs . Appeal allowed .