Appeal No . 353 of 1959 . Appeal from the judgment and order dated April 22 , 1958 , of the Punjab High Court ( Circuit Bench ) at Delhi in Civil Writ No . 257 D of 1957 . M. C. Setalvad , Attorney General of India , section N. Andley , J . B. Dadachanji Rameshwar Nath and P. L. Vohra , for the Appellant . G. section Pathak , R. L. Anand and Janardan Sharma , for the respondent No . 2 . 591 1960 . November 22 . The Judgment of the Court was delivered by WANCHOO , J . This is an appeal on a certificate granted by the Punjab High Court . Sharda Singh ( hereinafter called the respondent ) was in the service of the appellant mills . On August 28 , 1956 , the respondent was transferred from the night shift to the day shift in accordance with para 9 of the Standing Orders governing the workmen in the appellant mills . At that time an industrial dispute was pending bet ween the appellant mills and their workmen . The transfer was to take effect from August 30 , 1956 ; but the respondent failed to report for work in the day shift and was marked absent . On September 1 , 1956 , he submitted an application to the General Manager to the effect that he had reported for duty on August 30 , at 10 30 p.m. and had worked during the whole night , but had not been marked present . He had again gone to the mills on the night of August 31 , but was not allowed to work on the ground that he had been transferred to the day shift . He complained that he had been dealt with arbitrarily in order to harass him . Though he said that he had no objection to carrying out the orders , he requested the manager to intervene and save him from the high handed action taken against him , adding that the mills would be responsible for his wages for the days he was not allowed to work . On September 4 , 1956 , he made an application to the industrial tribunal , where the previous dispute was pending , under section 33 A of the , No . XIV of 1947 , ( hereinafter called the Act ) and complained that he had been transferred without any rhyme or reason from one shift to another and that this amounted to alteration in the conditions of his service , which was prejudicial and detrimental to his interest . As this alteration was made against the provisions of section 33 of the Act , he prayed for necessary relief from the tribunal under section 33 A . On September 5 , 1956 , the General Manager replied to the letter of September 1 , and told the respondent that his transfer from . one shift to the other had been ordered on 592 August 28 , and he had been told to report for work in the day shift from August 30 ; but instead of obeying the order which was made in the normal course and report for work as directed he had deliberately disobeyed the order and reported for work on August 30 in the night shift . He was then ordered to leave and report for work in the day shift . He however did not even then report for work in the day shift and absented himself intentionally and thus disobeyed the order of transfer . The General Manager therefore called upon the respondent to show cause why disciplinary action should not be taken against him for wailfully refusing to obey the lawful orders of the departmental officers and he was asked to submit his explanation within 48 hours . The respondent submitted his explanation on September 7 , 1956 . Soon after it appears the appellant mills received notice of the application under section 33 A and they submitted a reply of it on October 5 , 1956 . Their case was that transfer from one shift to another was within the power of the management and could not be said to be an alteration in the terms and conditions of service to the prejudice of the workman and therefore the complaint under section 33 A was not maintainable . The appellant mills also pointed out that a domestic inquiry was being held into the subsequent conduct of the respondent and prayed that proceedings in the application under section 33 A should be stayed till the domestic inquiry was concluded . No action seems to have been taken on this complaint under section 33 A , for which the appellant mills might as they had prayed for stay However , the domestic inquiry continued and on February 25 , be partly responsible of those proceedings . against the respondent 1957 , the inquiry officer reported that t e charge of misconduct was proved . Thereupon the General Manager passed an order on March 5 , 1957 , that in view of the serious misconduct of the respondent and looking into his past records , he should be dismissed ; but as an industrial dispute was pending then , the General Manager ordered that the permission of the industrial tribunal should be taken before the order of dismissal was 593 passed and an application should be made for seeking such permission under section 33 of the Act . In the meantime , a notification was issued on March 1 , 1957 , by which 10th March , 1957 , was fixed for the coming into force of certain provisions of the Central Act , No . XXXVI of 1956 , by which sections 33 and 33 A were amended . The amendment made a substantial change in section 33 and this change came into effect from March 10 , 1957 . The change