, for the statutory power would be always subject to the overriding pleasure of the Governor . This conclusion , the argument proceeds , would throw a public servant in India to the mercy of the executive Government while their compeers in England 700 can be protected by legislation against arbitrary actions of the State . This apprehension has no real .basis , for , unlike in England , a member of the public service in India is constitutionally protected at least in two directions : ( i ) he can not be dismissed by an authority subordinate to that by which he was appointed ; ( ii ) he can not be dismissed , removed or reduced in rank until he has been given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard to him . A condition similar to the first condition in article 311 found in section 96 B of the Government of India Act , 1919 , was hold by the Judicial Committee in R. T. Bangachari vs Secretary of State for India ( 1 ) to have a statutory force , and the second condition , which is only a reproduction of that found in sub section ( 2 ) of section 240 of the Government of India Act , 1935 , was held in High Commissioner for India and High Commissioner for Pakistan vs I. M. Lall ( 2 ) as mandatory qualifying the right of the employer recognized in sub section ( 1 ) thereof . These two statutory protections to the Government servant are now incorporated in article 311 of the Constitution . This Article imposes two qualifications on the exercise of the pleasure of the President or the Governor and they quite clearly restrict the operation of the rule embodied in article 310 ( 1 ) vide the observations of Das , C.J. , in Dhingra 's case ( 3 ) . The most important of these two limitations is the provision prescribing that a civil servant shall be given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard to him . As this condition is a limitation on the `` tenure at pleasure '' , a law can certainly be made by Parliament defining the content of `` reasonable opportunity '' and prescribing the procedure for giving the said opportunity . The appropriate High Court and the Supreme Court can test the validity of such a law on the basis whe ther the provisions prescribed provide for such an opportunity , and , if it is valid , to ascertain whether the reasonable opportunity so prescribed is really given to a particular officer . It may be that the ( 1 ) ( 1936 ) L.R . 64 I.A . 40 . ( 2 ) ( 1948 ) L.R . 75 1.A . 225 . ( 3 ) ; , 839 . 701 framers of the Constitution , having incorporated in our Constitution the `` tenure at pleasure '' unhampered by legislative interference , thought that the said limitations and qualifications would reasonably protect the interests of the civil servants against arbitrary actions . The discussion yields the following results : ( 1 ) In India every person who is a member of a public service described in article 310 of the Constitution holds office during the pleasure of the President or the Governor , as the case may be , subject to the express provisions therein . ( 2 ) The power to dismiss a public servant at pleasure is outside the scope of article 154 and , therefore , can not be delegated by the Governor to a subordinate officer , and can be exercised by him only in the manner prescribed by the Constitution . ( 3 ) This tenure is subject to the limitations or qualifications mentioned in article 311 of the , Constitution . ( 4 ) The Parliament or the Legislatures of States can not make a law abrogating or modifying this tenure so as to impinge upon the overriding power conferred upon the President or the Governor under article 310 , as qualified by article 311 . ( 5 ) The Parliament or the Legislatures of States can make a law regulating the conditions of service of such a member which includes proceedings by way of disciplinary action , without affecting the powers of the President or the Governor under article 310 of the Constitution read with article 311 thereof . ( 6 ) The Parliament and the Legislatures also can make a law laying down and regulating the scope and content of the doctrine of `` reasonable opportunity '' embodied in article 311 of the Constitution ; but the said law would be subject to judicial review . ( 7 ) If a statute could be made by Legislatures within the foregoing permissible limits , the rules made by an authority in exercise of the power conferred thereunder would likewise be efficacious within the said limits . What then is the effect of the said propositions in their application to the provisions of the and the rules made thereunder ? The of 89 702 1861 continues to be good law under the Constitution . Paragraph 477 of the Police Regulations shows that the rules in Chapter XXXII thereof have been framed under section 7 of the . Presumably , they were also made by the Government in exercise of its power under section 46 ( 2 ) of the . Under para . 479 ( a ) the Governor 's power of punishment with reference to all officers is preserved ; that is to say , this provision expressly saves the power of the Governor under article 310 of the Constitution . `` Rules made under a statute must be treated for all purposes of construction or obligation exactly as if they were in the Act and are to be