If this contention be accepted , no other question arises 'in this case ; therefore , we shall deal with the same . The material part of para . 486 of the Police Regulations reads thus : `` When the offence alleged against a police officer amounts to an offence only under section 7 of the Police Act , there can be no magisterial inquiry under the Criminal Procedure Code . In such cases , and in other cases until and unless a magisterial inquiry is ordered , inquiry will be made under the direction of the Superintendent of Police in accordance with the following rules : I.Every information received by the police relating to the commission of a cognizable offence by a police officer shall be dealt with in the first place under Chapter XIV , Criminal Procedure Code , according to law , a case under the appropriate section being registered in the police station concerned . . . . This provision expressly lays down that every information received by the police relating to the commission of a cognizable offence by a police officer shall be dealt with in the first place under Ch . XIV of the Criminal Procedure Code . This provision will not apply if the information received by the police does not 87 686 relate to the commission of a cognizable offence . Learned counsel contends that the information received in the present case does not relate to any offence committed by the respondent , much less to a cognizable offence . This is a point raised before us for the first time . This does not find a place even in the statement of case filed by the appellants . In the High Court it was not contended that the information did not disclose any offence committed by the respondent . Indeed , it was common case that the information disclosed an offence committed by the respondent , but it had been contended by the appellants that the misappropriation of the part of the money amounted to an offence under section 403 of the Indian Penal Code , which is not a cognizable offence ; and it was argued on behalf of the respondent that it amounted to an offence under section 409 of the Indian Penal Code . The learned judges accepted the contention of the respondent . Even so , it is said that whatever might been the contentions of the parties , the information given by Tika Ram to the Superintendent of Police clearly disclosed that no offence was alleged to have been committed by the respondent and that this Court would , therefore , be justified , even at this very late stage , to accept the contention of the appellants . But the contents of the said information do not in any way support the assertion . Paragraph 3 of the application given by Tika Ram to the Superintendent of Police , Sitapur , reads thus : `` That on Sunday last dated 6th September , 1953 the applicant had with him the currency notes of Rs . 650 . The opposite party as well as Shri Babu Ram met the applicant on the west of Rampur near the Canal . The opposite party said to the Sub Inspector `` This man appears to be clad in rags but is possessed of considerable money . '' After saying this the person of the applicant was searched . The Sub Inspector , having opened the bundle of notes , handed over the ( notes ) one by one to the opposite party. '' This statement clearly indicates that either the Sub . Inspector or both the Sub Inspector and Lalji searched the person of Tika Ram , that the Sub Inspector took 687 the bundle of notes and handed the same over , one by one , to Lalji for being returned to the applicant , and that out of Rs . 650 a sum of Rs . 250 was not returned to him . The facts alleged make out an offence against both the Sub Inspector as well as Lalji . The mere fact that the respondent is not shown as one of the opposite parties in the application does not affect the question , for the information given in the application imputed the commission of an offence to both the respondent and Lalji . The notice issued by the Supe rintendent of Police on November 2 , 1953 to the respondent also charges him with an offence of misappropriation . It is stated that the said notice only says that the Superintendent of Police had good reasons to suspect that the respondent misappropriated the sum of money and that it does not aver that he committed the offence of misappropriation . But what matters is 'that the Superintendent of Police also understood from the information given and the enquiry conducted by him that the respondent had committed the offence . Reliance is placed upon paragraph 3 of the writ petition wherein the respondent herein stated that Tika Ram filed a complaint against Lalji and not against the respondent . As a fact that is correct in the sense that the respondent was not shown in that application as the opposite party though in the body of that application definite allegations were made against the respondent . In the counter affidavit filed by the Superintendent of Police on behalf of the State it was clearly averred that on September 9 , 1953 Tika Ram appeared before him and filed a petition to the effect fiat one Lalji and the respondent had misappropriated a sum of Rs . 250 . Whatever ambiguity there might have been in the information we do not find any this allegation dispels it and it is not open to the appellants at this stage to contend that the petition did not disclose any offence against the respondent . In the circumstances , we must