of the same effect as if contained in the Act , and are to be judicially noticed for all purposes of construction or obligation '' : see Maxwell `` On the Interpretation of Statutes '' , 10th edn. , pp . 5051 . The statutory rules can not be described as , or equated with , administrative directions . If so , the and the rules made thereunder constitute a self contained code providing for ' the appointment . of police officers and prescribing the procedure for their removal . It follows that where the appropriate authority takes disciplinary action under the or the rules made thereunder , it must conform to the provisions of the statute or the rules which have conferred upon it the power to take the said action . If there is any violation of the said provisions , subject to the question which we will presently consider whether the rules are directory or mandatory , the public servant would have a right to challenge the decision of that authority . Learned counsel for the appellants relied upon the following decisions of the Privy Council and this Court in support of his contention that the said rules are administrative directions : R. T. Rangachari vs Secretary of State for India ( 1 ) , R. Venkata Rao vs Secretary of State for India ( 2 ) , High Commissioner for India and High Commissioner for Pakistan vs I. M. Lall ( 3 ) , section A. Venkataraman vs The Union of India ( 4 ) , and Khem Chand vs The Union of India ( 5 ) . In Venkata Rao 's ( 1 ) ( 1936 ) L.R . 64 I.A . 40 . ( 3 ) ( 1948 ) L.R . 75 I.A . 225 . ( 2 ) ( 1936 ) L.R . 64 I.A . 55 . ( 4 ) ; ( 5 ) ; 703 case ( 1 ) a reader of the Government Press was dismissed and in the suit filed by him against the Secretary , of State for India he complained , inter alia , that the dismissal was contrary to the statute inasmuch as it was not preceded by any such inquiry as was prescribed by rule XIV of the Civil Services Classification Rules made under section 96B ( 2 ) of the Government of India Act . Under section 96B of the said Act , every person in civil service holds office during the pleasure of His Majesty . Sub section ( 2 ) of that section empowers the Secretary of State for India to make rules laying down , among others , the conditions of service , and sub section ( 5 ) declares that no rules so made shall be construed to limit or abridge the power of the Secretary of State in Council to deal with the case of any person in the civil service of the Crown in India in such manner as may appear to him to be just and equitable . On a construction of these provisions the Judicial Committee held that His Majesty 's pleasure was paramount and could not legally be controlled or limited by the rules . Two reasons were given for the conclusion , namely , ( i ) section 96B in express terms stated that the office was held during the pleasure and there was no room for the implication of a contractual term that the rules were to be observed ; and ( ii ) sub section ( 2 ) of section 96B and the rules made careful provisions for redress of grievances by administrative process and that sub section ( 5 ) reaffirmed the superior authority of the Secretary of State in Council over the civil service . It may be noticed that the rules framed in exercise of the power conferred by the Act was to regulate the exercise of His Majesty 's pleasure . The observations were presumably coloured by the doctrine of `` tenure at pleasure '' obtaining in England , namely , that it could only be modified by statute , influenced by the princi ple that the rules made under a statute shall be consistent with its provisions and , what is more , based upon a construction of the express provisions of the Act . These observations can not , in our opinion , be taken out of their context and applied to the provisions of our Constitution and the Acts of our Legislatures in derogation of the well settled principles of ( 1 ) ( 1936 ) L. R. 64 I . A . 55 . 704 statutory construction . In Bangachari 's case ( 1 ) a police officer was dismissed by an authority subordinate to that by which he had been appointed . The appeal was heard along with that in Venkata Rao 's case ( 2 ) and the judgments in both the appeals were delivered on the same day . The Judicial Committee distinguished Venkata Rao 's case ( 2 ) with the following observations at p. 53 : `` It is manifest that the stipulation or proviso as to dismissal is itself of statutory force and stands on a footing quite other than any matters of rule which are of infinite variety and can be changed from time to time. '' These observations do not carry the matter further an our remarks made in connection with Venkata Rao 's case ( 2 ) would equally apply to this case . I.M . Lall 's case ( 3 ) turns upon sub section ( 3 ) of section 240 of the Government of India Act , 1935 . Again the Judicial Committee made a distinction between the rules and the provisions of the Act and ruled that sub sections ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of section 240 indicated a qualification or exception to the antecedent provisions in sub section (