hold that the information received by the police related to the commission of an offence by the respondent . Even so , it is contended that the said offence is not a cognizable offence . It is said that there was no 688 entrustment made by Tika Ram to the respondent and that , therefore , the offence did not fall under section 409 of the Indian Penal Code , which is a cognizable offence , but only under section 403 of the Indian Penal Code , which is not a cognizable offence . Section 405 of the Indian Penal Code defines `` criminal breach of trust '' and section 409 thereof prescribes the punishment for the criminal breach of trust by a public servant . Under section 405 of the Indian Penal Code , `` Whoever , being in any manner entrusted with property , or with any dominion over property , dishonestly misappropriates or converts to his own use that property , or dishonestly uses or disposes of that property in violation of any direction of law prescribing the mode in which such trust is to be discharged , or of any legal contract , express or implied , which he has made touching the discharge of such trust , or wilfully suffers any person so to do , commits `` criminal breach of trust '' . To constitute an offence under this section , there must be an entrustment of property and dishonest misappropriation of it . The person entrusted may misappropriate it himself , or he may wilfully suffer another person to do so . In the instant case the respondent , being a police officer , was legally entitled to search a person found under suspicious circumstances ; and Tika Ram in handing over the bundle of notes to the police officer must have done so in the confidence that he would get back the notes from him when the suspicion was cleared . In these circumstances , there can not be any difficulty in holding that the currency notes were alleged to have been handed over by Tika Ram to the respondent for a specific purpose , but were dishonestly misappropriated by the respondent or at , any rate he wilfully suffered Lalji to misappropriate the same . We , therefore , hold that if the currency notes were taken by the respondent in discharge of his duty for inspection and return , he was certainly entrusted with the notes within the meaning of section 405 of the Indian Penal Code . If so , the information discloses a cognizable offence . We reject the first contention . The second objection of learned counsel for the appellants is that sub para . ( 3 ) of para . 486 of the 689 Police Regulations enables the appropriate police authority to initiate the departmental proceeding without complying with the provisions of sub para . ( 1 ) of para . The relevant portion of para . 486 of the Police Regulations reads : `` When the offence amounts to an offence only under section 7 of the Police Act , there can be no magisterial inquiry under the Criminal Procedure Code . In such cases , and in other cases until and unless a magisterial inquiry is ordered , inquiry will be made under the direction of the Superintendent of Police in accordance with the following rules : . . `` Rule I relates to a cognizable offence , r. II to a non cognizable . offence , including an offence under section 29 of the Police Act , and r. III to an offence under section 7 of the Police Act or a non cognizable offence , including an offence under section 29 of the Police Act . Rule III says : `` When a Superintendent of Police sees reason to take action on information given to him , or on his own knowledge or suspicion , that a police officer subordinate to him has committed an offence under section 7 of the Police Act or a non cognizable offence ( including an offence under section 29 of the Police Act ) of which he considers it unnecessary at that stage to forward a report in writing to the District Magistrate under rule II above , he will make or cause to be made by an officer senior in rank to the officer charged , a departmental inquiry sufficient to test the truth of the charge . On the conclusion of this inquiry he will decide whether further action is necessary , and if so , whether the officer charged should be departmentally tried , or whether the District Magistrate should be moved to take cognizance of the case under the Criminal Procedure Code. `` The argument is that the words `` an offence under section 7 of the Police Act '' take in a cognizable offence and that , therefore , this rule provides for a procedure alternative to that prescribed under r. I . We do not think that this contention is sound . Section 7 of the Police Act empowers certain officers to dismiss , suspend 690 or reduce any police officer of the subordinate rank whom they shall think remiss or negligent in the discharge of his duty , or unfit for the same . The grounds for punishment are comprehensive : they may take in offences under the Indian Penal Code or other penal statutes . The commission of such offences may also be a ground to hold that an officer is unfit to hold his office . Action under this section can , therefore , be taken in respect of , ( i ) offences only under section 7 of the Police Act without involving any cognizable or noncognizable offences , that is , simple remissness or negli gence in the discharge of duty , ( ii ) cognizable offences , and ( iii ) non cognizable offences