Section 2 of the constitutes the police establishment ; section 7 empowers specified officers to ( 1 ) [ 1936 ] L.R . 64 I.A . 55 . 707 punish specified subordinate officers who are remiss or negligent in discharge of their duties or unfit for the same ; section 46 enables the Government to make rules . to regulate the procedure to be followed by the magistrate and police officers in discharge of any duty imposed on them by or under the Act ; under section 7 , read with section 46 of the , the Police Regulations embodied in chapter XXXII were framed . Paragraph 477 of the Regulations says that the rules in that chapter have been made under section 7 of the and apply only to officers appointed under section 2 of the and that no officer appointed under that section shall be punished by executive order otherwise than in the manner provided in that chapter . Paragraph 478 prescribes the nature of the punishment that can be imposed on the delinquent officers . Paragraph 479 empowers specified officers to punish specified subordinate officers . Paragraph 483 gives the procedure to be followed in the matter of the inquiry against a police officer . It reads : `` Subject to the special provision contained in paragraph 500 and to any special orders which may be passed by the Governor in particular cases a proceeding against a police officer will consist of A A magisterial or police inquiry , followed , if this inquiry shows the need for further action , by B A judicial trial , or C A departmental trial , or both , consecutively . '' Paragraph 484 declares that the nature of the inquiry in any particular case will vary according to the nature of the offence . If the offence is cognizable or non cognizable , the inquiry will be according to Schedule II of the Criminal Procedure Code . If the information is received by the District Magistrate , he may in exercise of his powers under the Criminal Procedure Code either , ( 1 ) make or order a magisterial inquiry ; or ( 2 ) order an investigation by the Police . Paragraph 485 reads : `` When a magisterial inquiry is ordered it will be made in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Code and the Superintendent of Police will have no direct 708 concern with it until the conclusion of judicial proceedings or until and unless the case is referred to him for further disposal , but he must give any assistance to the inquiring magistrate that he may legally be called upon to give and he must suspend the accused should this become necessary under paragraph 496 . '' Paragraph 486 says that there can be no magisterial inquiry under the Criminal Procedure Code when the offence alleged against a police officer amounts to an offence only under section 7 of the , and it provides further that in such cases , and in , other cases until and unless a magisterial inquiry is ordered , inquiry will be made under the direction of the Superintendent of Police in accordance with the rules given thereunder . Under rule I thereof , `` Every information received by the police relating to the commission of a cognizable offence by a police officer shall be dealt with in the first place under Chapter XIV , Criminal Procedure Code , according to law , a case under the appropriate section being registered in the police station concerned '' . There are six provisos to that rule . Rule II provides for the inquiry of a non cognizable offence ; and rule III prescribes the procedure in regard to an offence only under section 7 of the or a non cognizable offence of which the Superintendent of Police considers unnecessary at that stage to forward a report in writing to the District Magistrate . Paragraph 488 deals with a judicial trial and para . 489 with a departmental trial . Paragraph 489 says : `` A police officer may be departmentally tried under section 7 of the ( 1 ) after he has been tried judicially ; ( 2 ) after a magisterial inquiry under the Criminal Procedure Code ; ( 3 ) after a police investigation under the Criminal Procedure Code or a departmental enquiry under paragraph 486 , III above. '' There are other provisions dealing with the manner of conducting the inquiries and other connected matters . The rules provide for the magisterial and police inquiry followed , if the inquiry showed the need for further action , by a judicial trial or a departmental 709 trial , or both , consecutively . In the case of cognizable offences the Superintendent of Police is directed to investigate under chapter XIV of the Criminal Pro p , cedure Code and in the case of non cognizable offences in the manner provided in rule II of para . 486 , and in the case of an offence only under section 7 of the or a non cognizable offence in the manner provided under rule III of para . After one or other of the relevant procedure is followed , the Superintendent of Police is empowered to try a police officer departmentally . The question is whether rule I of para . 486 is directory . The relevant rule says that the police officer shall be tried in the first place under chapter XIV of the Criminal Procedure Code . The word `` shall '' in its ordinary import is `` obligatory '' ; but there are many decisions wherein the courts under different situations construed the word to mean `` may '' . This Court in Hari Vishnu Kamath vs Syed Ahmad Ishaque ( 1 ) dealt with this problem at p. 1125 thus : `` It is well established that an enactment in form mandatory might in substance be directory