whom it may be delegated . Further though the Governor may delegate his executive power of dismissal at pleasure to subordinate officers he still retains in himself the power to dismiss at pleasure if he thinks fit in a particular case in spite 724 of the delegation . There can be no question that where a delegation is made , the authority making the delegation retains in itself what has been delegated . Therefore , even where a subordinate officer is exercising the power to dismiss he is indirectly exercising the power of the Governor to dismiss at pleasure and so his power of dismissal can only be subject to the same limitations to which the power of the Governor would be subject if he exercised it directly . But it is said that in the present case the power has not been delegated by the Governor under article 154 ( 1 ) and that it had been conferred on those police officers by law . In our opinion , that makes no difference to the nature of the power , which is being exercised by these four grades of officers under the . As we have already said article 154 ( 2 ) ( b ) gives power to Parliament or the legislature of a State by law to confer functions on any authority subordinate to the Governor . When the function of dismissal is conferred by law on any authority subordinate to the Governor it is nothing more than delegation of the Governor 's executive power to dismiss at pleasure by means of law and stands in no better position than a delegation by the Governor himself under article 154 ( 1 ) . Whether it is delegation by the Governor himself or whether it is delegation by law under article 154 ( 2 ) ( b ) or by an existing law , which must be treated as analogous to a law under article 154 ( 2 ) ( b ) , the officer exercising the power of dismissal is only indirectly exercising , the Governor 's power to dismiss at pleasure and his order of dismissal has the same effect as the order of the Governor to dismiss at pleasure . Therefore , his order also is only subject to the two fetters provided in article 311 of the Constitution and can not be subjected to any more fetters by procedural rules other than those framed for carrying out the object of article 311 ( 2 ) . Therefore , when the four grades of officers proceed to dismiss any police officer of the subordinate rank under section 7 of the , they are merely exercising . the power of the Governor to dismiss at pleasure indirectly ; and the only fetters that can be placed on that power are those contained in the Constitution , namely , article 311 . 725 We may in this connection refer once again to the case of Venkata Rao ( 1 ) where the dismissal was by an , officer subordinate to the Governor of Madras ; but ' that dismissal was also held to be an indirect exercise I of His Majesty 's pleasure to dismiss , and that is why it was held that if r. XIV of the Classification Rules was not complied with , a public servant had no right of action against an order dismissing him at His Majesty 's pleasure . Therefore , whenever a subordinate officer exercises the power to dismiss , whether that power is delegated by the Governor , or is delegated under a law made under article 154 ( 2 ) ( b ) or under an existing law analogous to that , he is merely exercising indirectly the power of the Governor to dismiss at pleasure and his action is subject only to the two guarantees contained in article 311 . The fact therefore that the police officer in this case made the order of dismissal by virtue of section 7 will make no difference and he will be deemed to be exercising the power of the Governor to dismiss at pleasure by delegation to him by law of that power . We may add that even where there is delegation by law of the power of the Governor to dismiss at pleasure , the power of the Governor himself to act directly and dismiss at pleasure can not be taken away by that law , for that power he derives from article 310 of the Constitution . The present case therefore must be judged on the same basis as any case of dismissal directly by the Governor and would only be subject to the two limitations contained in article 311 . We now come to r. 486 . This rule , as we have already indicated , provides that if there is any complaint of the commission of any cognizable crime by a police officer , it must be registered in the relevant police station , under Chapter XIV of the Code of Criminal Procedure and investigated in the manner provided by that Chapter . After the investigation is complete , it is open to the authority concerned , be it the Superintendent of Police or the District Magistrate , to decide whether to proceed in a court of law ( 1 ) ( 1936 ) L.R . 64 I.A . 55 . 92 726 or to hold a departmental inquiry or do both , though in the last case the departmental inquiry must take place only after the judicial trial is over . The first question then that arises is whether r. 486 is meant to carry out the purpose of article 311 ( 2 ) . As we read r. 486 , we can not see that it is meant for that purpose ; it only provides for a police investigation under Chapter XIV of the Code of Criminal Procedure . The police officer making