we are concerned . Section 7 thereof lays down that four grades of officers will have power to dismiss , suspend or reduce any police officer of the subordinate ranks subject to such rules as the State Government may from time to time make under the . Though the is a pre constitutional law which has continued under article 372 of the Constitution , it can not in our opinion stand higher than a law passed under article 309 or article 154 ( 2 ) ( b ) and out down the content of the pleasure tenure as contained in article 310 . The police officers of the subordinate ranks are not expressly excluded from the operation of the pleasure tenure by any provision of the Constitution ; they , therefore , hold office during the pleasure of the Governor and the only protection that they can claim are the two guarantees contained in article 311 . It is true that section 7 lays down that the four grades of officers empowered to dismiss will act according to rules framed by the State Government ; but that does not in our opinion mean that 722 these rules could introduce any further fetter on the pleasure tenure under which the police officers of the subordinate ranks are in service . It was necessary to provide for the framing of rules because the section envisages conferment of , powers of punishment of various kinds on four grades of officers relating to various cadres of police officers in the subordinate ranks . It was left to the rules to provide which four grades of officers would dismiss police officers of which subordinate rank or would give which punishment to a police officer of which subordinate rank . Such rules would in our opinion be mandatory as they go to the root of the jurisdiction of the four grades of police officers empowered to act under section 7 . But further rules may be framed under section 7 to guide these police officers how to act when they proceed to dismiss or inflict any other punishment on police officers of the subordinate ranks . These rules of procedure , however , can not all be mandatory , for if they were so they would be putting further fetters than those provided in article 311 on the pleasure of the Governor to dismiss a public servant . of course , if any of the rules framed under section 7 carry out the purposes of article 311 ( 2 ) , to that extent they will be mandatory and in that sense their contravention would in substance amount to contravention of article 311 itself . If this were not so , it would be possible to forge further fetters on the pleasure of the Governor to dismiss a public servant and this in the light of what we have said above is clearly not possible in view of the provisions of the Constitution . On the other hand , it will not be possible by means of rules framed under section 7 to take away the guarantee provided by article 311 ( 1 ) , which lays down that no public servant shall be dismissed by an authority subordinate to that by which he was appointed . If any rule under section 7 , for example , lays down otherwise it will clearly be ultra vires in view of article 311 ( 1 ) . The rules therefore that are framed under section 7 would thus be of two kinds , namely ( 1 ) those which define the jurisdiction of four grades of officers to inflict a particular kind of punishment on a particular police officer of the subordinate rank they will be mandatory 723 for they go to the root of the jurisdiction of the officer exercising the power , but even these rules can not go against the provisions of article 31 1 ( 1 ) ; and ( 2 ) procedural rules , which again may be of two kinds . Some of them may prescribe the manner in which the guarantee contained in article 311 ( 2 ) may be carried out and if there are any such rules they will be mandatory . The rest will be merely procedural and can only be directory as otherwise if they are also mandatory further fetters on the power of the Governor to dismiss at his pleasure contained in article 310 would be forged and this is not permissible under the Constitution . It is from this angle that we shall have to consider 486 . Before , however , we come to r. 486 itself , we may dispose of another argument , namely , that the four grades of officers who have the power to dismiss under section 7 are exercising the statutory authority vested in them and are not exercising the Governor 's pleasure of dismissal under article 310 and therefore their action in dismissing an officer is subject to all the rules framed for their guidance . We are of opinion that this argument is fallacious . Article 310 defines the pleasure tenure and by necessary implication gives power to the Governor to dismiss at pleasure any public servant subject to the exceptions contained in article 310 and also subject to the guarantees contained in article 311 . This power of the Governor to dismiss is executive power of the State and can be exercised under article 154 ( 1 ) by the Governor himself directly or indirectly through officers subordinate to him . Thus it is open to the Governor to delegate his power of dismissal to officers subordinate to him ; but even when those officers exercise the power of dismissal , the Governor is indirectly exercising it through those to whom he has delegated it and it is still the pleasure of the Governor to dismiss , which is being exercised by the subordinate officers to