by section 96 B . In exercise of the power conferred under sub section ( 2 ) certain classification rules were framed by the local Government . This Act was repealed by the Government of India Act , 1935 , and the section corresponding to section 96 B was section 240 ( 1 ) in the latter Act . Section 241 ( 2 ) empowered , except as expressly provided by the Act , the Governor General and the Governor to prescribe the conditions of service of the servants they were empowered to appoint . The main difference between the Act of 1919 and that of 1935 was that in the former Act there was only one limitation on the Crown 's pleasure , namely , that no person in the service might be dismissed by 693 an authority subordinate to that by which he was appointed , whereas in the latter Act a second limitation was imposed , namely , that no such person should ' be dismissed or reduced in rank until he had been given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against the action proposed to be taken in regard to him : see section 240 , sub sections ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) . Another difference between the said two Acts was that while under the former Act all the services were placed in the same position , under the latter Act special provision was made for the police force prescribing that the conditions of service of the subordinate ranks of the various police forces should be such as might be determined by or under the Acts relating to those forces respectively vide section 243 . By the Constitution , the Act of 1935 was repealed , and , with certain changes in phraseology , cls . ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of article 310 took the place of sub sections ( 1 ) and ( 4 ) of section 240 respectively , and article 309 took the place of section 241 ( 2 ) . Under article 313 , `` Until other provision is made in this behalf under this Constitution , all the laws in force immediately before the commencement of this Constitution and applicable to any public service or any post which continues to exist after the commencement of this Constitution , as an all India service or as service or post under the Union or a State shall continue in force so far as consistent with the provisions of this Constitution '' . The result is that the and the Police Regulations , made in exercise of the powers conferred on the Government under that Act , which .were preserved under section 243 of the Government of India Act , 1935 , continue to be in force after the Con stitution so far as they are consistent with the provisions of the Constitution . It is common case , as the contentions of learned counsel disclose , that the Act and the Regulations framed thereunder were constitutionally valid at the inception and that they are also consistent with the provisions of the Constitution . The difference between the two contentions lies in the fact that according to one His Majesty 's pleasure can not be modified 88 694 by a statute , according to the other it is subject to statutory provisions . The relevant provisions of the Constitution read thus : Article 309 : `` Subject to the provisions of this Constitution , Acts of the appropriate Legislature may regulate the recruitment , and conditions of service of persons appointed , to public services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union or of any State : Provided that it shall be competent for the President or such person as he may direct in the case of services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union , and for the Governor of a State or such person as he may direct in the case of services and posts in connection with the affairs of the State , to make rules regulating the recruitment , and the conditions of service of persons appointed , to such services and posts until provision in that behalf is made by or under an Act of the appropriate Legislature under this article , and any rules so made shall have effect subject to the provisions of any such Act. '' Article 310 : `` Except as expressly provided by this Constitution , every person who is a member of a defence service or of a civil service or holds any post connected with defence or any Civil Post under the Union holds office during the pleasure of the President , and every person who is a member of a civil service of a State or holds any civil post under a State holds office during the pleasure of the Governor of the State . '' Under article 309 the appropriate Legislature may regulate the recruitment and conditions of service of persons appointed to public services . Under article 310 every person who is EC member of a public service described therein holds office during the pleasure of the President or the Governor , as the case may be . The words `` conditions of service '' in article 309 in their comprehensive sense take in the tenure of a civil servant : see N. W. F. Province vs Suraj Narain ( 1 ) . Therefore , `` the tenure at pleasure '' is also one of the conditions of service . But article 309 opens out with a ( i ) A.I.R . ( 1949 ) P.C . 112 . 695 restrictive clause , namely , `` Subject to the provisions of this Constitution '' , and if there is no restrictive , clause in article 310 , there can not be any difficulty in holding that article 309 is subject to the provisions of ' Art 310