& Co. ( 2 ) , this Court said : `` Another test is whether the transaction is properly entered into as a part of the assessee 's legitimate commercial undertaking in order to facilitate the carrying on of its business ; and it is immaterial that a third party also benefits thereby . ( Eastern Investment Ltd. vs Commissioner of Income Tax , ( 1951 ) 20 I.T.R . 1 ) . But in every case it is a question of fact whether the expenditure was expended wholly and exclusively for the purpose of trade or business of the assessee . In the present case the finding is that it was laid out for the purpose of the assessee 's business and there is evidence to support this finding . '' But those observations must be read in the context . In that case the assessee firm was the Managing Agent of a Company and at the request of the Directors of ( 1 ) ; , 598 . ( 2 ) , 610 . 733 the latter agreed to accept a lesser commission for the year of account than it was entitled to . It was found , by the Appellate Tribunal there that the amount was expended for reasons of commercial expediency and was not given as a bounty but to strengthen the managed company so that if its financial position became strong the assessee would benefit thereby , and an the evidence the Tribunal came to the conclusion that the amount was wholly and exclusively for the purpose of such business . It was on this evidence that the expense was held to be wholly and exclusively laid out for the purpose of the assessee 's business and this was the finding referred to . In that case the Tribunal had not misdirected itself as to the true scope and meaning of the words `` wholly and exclusively laid out for the purpose of the assessee 's business '' . In the present case the Income tax Appellate Tribunal had misdirected itself as to the true scope and meaning of these words . In our opinion , in the circumstances of this case , it can not be said that the finding of the Tribunal was one of fact . The question as to whether the expenses of running the school for jockeys is deductible has to be decided taking into consideration the circumstances of this case . The business of the respondent was to run race meetings on a commercial scale for which it is necessary to have races of as high an order as possible . For the popularity of the races run by the respondent and to make its business profitable it was necessary that there were jockeys of requisite skill and experience in sufficient numbers who would be available to the owners and trainers because without such efficient jockeys the running of race meetings would not be commercially profitable . It was for this purpose that the respondent started the school for training Indian jockeys . , If there were not sufficient number of efficient Indian jockeys to ride horses its interest would have suffered , and it might have had to abandon its business if it did not take steps to make jockeys of the necessary calibre available . Therefore any expenditure which was incurred for preventing the extinction 93 734 of the respondent 's business would , in our opinion , be expenditure wholly and exclusively laid out for the purpose of the business of the assessee and would be an allowable deduction . This finds support from decided cases . In Commissioner of Income tax vs Chandulal Keshavlal & Co. ( 1 ) , this Court held that in order to justify a deduction the disbursement must be for reasons of commercial expediency ; it may be voluntary but incurred for the assessee 's business ; and if the expense is incurred for the purpose of the business of the assessee it does not matter that the payment also enures to the benefit of a third party . Another test laid down was that if the transaction is properly entered into as a part of the assessee 's legitimate commercial undertaking in order to facilitate the carrying on of its business it is immaterial that a third party also benefits thereby . In British Insulated and Helsby Cables vs Atherton ( 2 ) , Viscount Cave L. C. held that a Bum of money expended , not of necessity and with a view to a direct and immediate benefit to the trade , but voluntarily and on the ground of commercial expediency and in order indirectly to facilitate the carrving on of the business may yet be expended wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the trade . In a case more recently decided Morgan vs Tate & Lyle Ltd. ( 3 ) the assessee company was engaged in sugar refining business and it incurred expenses in a propaganda campaign to oppose the threatened nationalisation of the industry . It was held by the House of Lords by a majority that the object of the expenditure being to preserve the assets of the company from seizure and so to enable it to carry on its business and earning profits , the expense was an admissible deduction being wholly and exclusively laid out for the purpose of the company 's trade . Lord Morton of Henryton said : `` Looking simply at the words of the rule I would ask : '' If money so spent is not spent for the purpose of the company 's trade , for what purpose is it spent ? '' If the assets are seized , the company can no longer ( 1 ) , 610 . ( 2 ) ( 3 ) 735 carry on the trade which has been carried on by the use of these assets . Thus the money is