spent to preserve the very existence of the company 's trade '' . See also Strong & Co. vs Woodifield ( 1 ) , the observations of Lord Davey ; and Smith vs Incorporated Council of Law Reporting ( 2 ) . Counsel for the appellant relied upon the judgment of the Privy Council in Ward & Co. Ltd. vs Commissioner of Taxes ( 3 ) , but that decision proceeds on a different statute where the words were of a very restrictive character , the words being : `` . . . . Expenditure or loss of any kind not exclusively incurred in the production of the assessable income derived from that source . . . This case was distinguished in Morgan vs Tate & Lyle ( 4 ) on the ground that the language of the Now Zealand statute was much narrower than the language of r. 3A in England . Reference was also made by the appellant to Boarland vs Kramat Pulai Ltd. ( 5 ) . In that case Directors of three Companies engaged in tin mining in Malaya incurred expenditure on printing . and circulating to shareholders a pamphlet containing remarks of the Chairman of the Company . The pamphlet was an attack on the policy and acts of the Socialist Government and it was held that the question whether the money was wholly and exclusively laid out or expended for the purpose of trade within the meaning of rules applicable to the question was one of law but on a consideration of the question it was held that the expenditure was not solely incurred with that object . It is not necessary to discuss that case at any length because what was held in that case was that the pamphlet was not wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the company 's trade . Applying the law , as laid down in those cases , to the present case the conclusion is that the amount in dispute was laid out wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the respondent 's business because if the ( 1 ) ; ( 2 ) [ 19I4 ] 3 K.B . 674 . ( 3 ) [ 1923 ] A.C 145 . ( 4 ) ( 5 ) 736 supply of jockeys of efficiency and skill failed the business of the respondent would no longer be possible . Thus the money was spent for the preservation of the respondent 's business . As to the third point there is no substance in the submission that the expenditure was in the nature of a capital expense because no asset of enduring nature was being created by this expense . In our opinion the High Court has rightly held that the expenditure claimed was one which was wholly and exclusively laid out for the purpose of the respondent 's business . It was to prevent the threatened extinction of the business of the respondent . In the result this appeal is dismissed with costs . Appeal dismissed .