the respondent , the amount did not represent salary ; it represented a judgment debt and for payment of income tax thereon , no provision was made in the decree . The Civil Procedure Code bars an action of the nature which was filed in Westminster Bank 's case ( supra ) . The defence to the execution if any must be raised in the execution proceeding and not by a separate action . The amount payable by the appellant company to the respondent was not salary but a judgment debt , and before paying that debt the appellant company could not claim 779 to deduct at source tax payable by the respondent . Nor could the appellant company seek to justify its plea on the ground that the judgment creditor was indebted to a third person . The principle of the case in Manickam Chettiar vs Income Tax Officer , Madura ( 1 ) , on which reliance was also sought to be placed by the appellant company has no application to this case . In Manickam Chettiar 's case ( 1 ) , in execution of a money decree certain properties belonging to a judgment debtor were attached and sold and the sale proceeds were received by the court . The Income Tax Officer who had assessed the decree holder to tax payable by him on his other income applied to the court for an order directing payment to him out of the sale proceeds the amount of income tax due by the decree holder . It was held that the claim for income tax was entitled to priority in payment and the court had inherent power to make an order on the application for payment of money due as income tax . Tax had admittedly been assessed , and proceedings substantially for recovery of the tax so assessed were adopted by the Income Tax Officer . It was held in the circumstances that the court had jurisdiction to direct recovery of tax out of the amount standing to the credit of the decree holder . The principle of that case can have no application to the facts of the present case . The respondent had not appeared before us , but we have been assisted by Mr. Rajagopala Sastri and we are indebted to him for placing the evidence and the various aspects of the case on a true appreciation of which the question in issue fell to be determined . The appeal fails and is dismissed . As there was no appearance for the respondent , there will be no order for costs . Appeal dismissed . ( 1 ) VI I.T . R. 180 .