a suit for a decree for arrears of salary , compensation for wrongful termination of employment and interest . The court having passed a decree on that claim , it became a judgment debt . It may have been open to the appellant company in the suit to apply to the court for making a provision in the decree for payment of income tax due by the respondent , but no such provision was made . We are not concerned to decide in this appeal whether in the hands of the respondent the amount due to him under the decree , when paid , will be liable to tax ; that question does not fall to be determined in this appeal . The question to be determined is whether as between the appellant company and the respondent the amount decreed is due as salary payment of which attracts the statutory liability imposed by section 18 . The claim decreed by the civil court was for compen sation , for wrongful termination of employment , arrears of salary , salary due for the period of notice and interest and costs , less withdrawals on salary account . The amount for which execution was sought to be levied was the amount decreed against which was set off the claim under the cross decree . A substantial part of the claim decreed represented compensation fir wrongful termination of employment and it would be difficult to predicate of the claim sought to be enforced what part thereof if any represented salary due . Granting that compensation payable to an 777 employee by an employer for wrongful termination of employment be regarded as in the nature of salary , when the claim is merged in the decree of the court , ' the claim assumes the character of a judgment debt and to judgment debts section 18 has not been made applicable . The decree passed by the civil court must be executed subject to the deductions and adjustments permissible under the Code of Civil Procedure . The judgment debtor may , if he has a cross decree for money , claim to set off the amount due thereunder . If there be any adjustment of the decree , the decree may be executed for the amount due as a result of the adjustment . A third person who has obtained a decree against the judgment creditor may apply for attachment of the decree and such decree may be executed subject to the claim of the third person : but the judgment debtor can not claim to satisfy , in the absence of a direction in the decree to that effect the claim of a third person against the judgment creditor , and pay only the balance . The rule that the decree must be executed according to its tenor may be modified by a statutory provision . But there is nothing in the Income Tax Act which supports the plea that in respect of the amount payable under a judgment debt of the nature sought to be enforced , the debtor is entitled to deduct income tax which may become due and payable by the judgment creditor on the plea that the cause of action on which the decree was passed was the contract of employment and a part of the claim decreed represented amount due to the employee as salary or damages in lieu of salary . Counsel for the appellant company strongly relied upon the decision of the House of Lords in Westminster Bank Ltd. vs Riches ( 1 ) . That was a case in which in an action brought by one R against the Westminster Bank trustee of the estate of one X R was awarded a decree for pound 36,255 principal and pound 10,028 as interest . The Bank thereafter brought an action for a declaration that it had satisfied the judg ment in the action by R by paying him the amount ( 1 ) 18 Tax Cases 159 . 778 due less pound 5,014 , the latter sum representing income tax on the interest awarded by the judgment . It was held by the House of Lords that pound 10,028 was `` interest of money '' within Schedule D and General Rule 21 of the Income Tax Act , 1918 , and that income tax was deductible therefrom . In that case , the only argument advanced on behalf of the Bank is set out in the speech of Viscount Simon , L. C. at p. 187 : `` The appellant contends that the additional sum of pound 10,028 though awarded under a power to add interest to the amount of the debt , and though called interest in the judgment , is not really interest such as attracts Income Tax , but is damages . The short answer to this is that there is no essential incompatibility between the two conceptions . The real question , for the purposes of deciding whether the Income Tax Acts apply , is whether the added sum is capital or income , not whether the sum is damages or interest . '' The House of Lords in that case by a majority held that pound 10,028 awarded under the judgment represented not capital but interest and was liable to tax . In our view , ' this case has no application to the facts of the present case . In the case before us , there is a decree passed in favour of the respondent : under the scheme of the Civil Procedure Code , that decree has to be executed as it stands , subject to such deductions or adjustments as are permissible under the Code . There was no tax liability which the respondent was assessed to pay in respect of this amount till the date on which the appellant company sought to satisfy the alleged tax liability of the respondent . As between the appellant company and