Appeal No . 327 of 1959 . Appeal from the order dated June 28 , 1956 , of the Bombay High Court at Nagpur in Misc . First Appeal No . 15 of 1954 . 98 774 A. V. Viswanatha Sastri , Shankar Anand and A. G. Batnaparkhi , for the appellant . K. N. Rajagopal Sastri , as amicus curiae . November 29 . The Judgment of the Court was delivered by SHAH , J. Ramachandra Dhondo Datar hereinafter referred to as the respondent was employed by the appellant company in its publications branch . By agreement dated March 23 , 1943 , the appellant company agreed to pay to the respondent as from April 1 , 1943 , remuneration per annum equal to 3 1/2 % of the gross sales or Rs . 12,000 whichever was greater . The agreement was to remain in operation for ten years from April 1 , 1943 , in the first instance and was renewable at the option of the respondent for such period as he desired . By notice dated April 19 , 1948 , served on the respondent on April 22 , 1948 , the appellant company terminated the employment of the respondent . The respondent then filed a civil suit in the court of the Fifth Additional District Judge , Nagpur , for a decree for Rs . 1,30,000 being the amount of compensation for wrongful termination of employment , arrears of salary and interest . On July 17 , 1953 , the court after giving credit for the amount received by the respondent passed a decree for Rs . 42,359 ( which was inclusive of Rs . 36,000 as compensation for termination of employment and Rs . 6,000 as salary in lieu of six months notice and interest ) and costs and interest on judgment . The respondent then applied for execution of the decree and claimed Rs . 54,893 12 0 less Rs . 18,501 10 0 decreed against him in a cross suit filed by the appellant company . The Income Tax Officer , Nagpur , served a notice under section 46 of the Indian Income Tax Act upon the respondent and also gave intimation to the District Judge , Nagpur , that the appellant company be permitted to deduct at source and to pay into the Government Treasury Rs . 15,95613 0 as income tax , surcharge and super tax due on the sum of Rs . 50,972 2 0 awarded to the respondent . The appellant company also applied that the 775 executing Court do declare that the appellant company was entitled and in law bound to deduct the tax due on the amount . The learned Judge directed the appellant company to pay to the Income Tax Department Rs . 15,956 13 0 on account of income tax and super tax on the amount due to the respondent and directed it to pay the balance in court after filing a receipt for payment of tax from the Income Tax department . In appeal to the High Court of Judicature at Nagpur , the order passed by the District Judge was reversed and execution as claimed by the respondent was directed . The appellant company contends that under section 18 ( 2 ) of the Income Tax Act , it was bound to deduct the tax computed at the appropriate rate on the salary payable to the respondent as the amount due under the decree represented salary . Section 18 sub section ( 2 ) of the Income Tax Act in so far as it is material provides that any person paying any amount chargeable under the head `` salaries '' shall at the time of payment deduct income tax and super tax at the rate representing the average of the rates applicable to the estimated total income of the assessee under the head `` salary '' . Sub section ( 7 ) declares that a person failing to deduct the taxes required by the section shall be deemed to be an assessee in default in respect of such tax . The Legislature has , it is manifest , imposed upon the employer the duty to deduct tax at the appropriate rate on salary payable to the employee and if he fails to do so , the tax not deducted may be recovered from him . But the liability to deduct arises in law , if the amount is due and payable as salary . In this case , there has been no assessment of tax due by the Income Tax Officer on the amount payable to the respondent . Under section 46 ( 5 ) , any person paying salary to an assessee may be required by the Income Tax Officer to deduct arrears of tax due from the latter and the employer is bound to comply with such a requisition and to pay the amount deducted to the credit of the Government . But this order can only be passed if income tax has been assessed and has remained unpaid . It is undisputed that at the , material 776 time , no tax was assessed against the respondent ; the Income Tax Officer had accordingly no authority to issue a notice under section 46 ( 5 ) . Nor could the Income Tax Officer claim to recover tax due by a proceeding in the nature of a garnishee proceeding by applying to the civil court to attach the Judgment debt payable by the company . The application submitted by the Income Tax Officer must therefore be ignored . Undoubtedly , the employer is by section 18 of the Act liable to deduct from the salary payable by him to his employee the amount of tax at the average rate appli cable to the estimated total income ; but can it be said that as between the appellant company and the respondent the decretal amount represented salary ? The respondent had filed