Appeal No . 650 of 1957 . Appeal from the judgment dated July 13 , 1956 , of the Patna High Court in Miscellaneous Judicial Case No . 665 of 1954 . R. Ganapathy Iyer and R. H. Dhebar , for the appellant . A. V. Viswanatha Sastri and R. C. Prasad , for the respondent . November 29 . The Judgment of the Court was delivered by HIDAYATULLAH , J . This is an appeal by the Commissioner of Income tax with a certificate against the judgment and order of the High Court at Patna answering two questions of law referred to it under section 66 ( 1 ) of the Income tax Act by the Tribunal , in the negative . Those questions were : `` ( 1 ) Whether in the circumstances of the case assessment proceedings were validly initiated under section 34 of the Indian Income tax Act ? ( 2 ) If so , whether in the circumstances of the case the amount received from interest on arrears of agricultural rent was rightly included in the income of the assessee ? '' The assessee , the Maharaja Pratapsingh Bahadur of Gidhaur , had agricultural income from his zamindari for the four assessment years 1944 45 to 1947 48 . In assessing his income to income tax , the authorities did not include in his assessable income interest received by him on arrears of rent . This was presumably so in view of the decision of the Patna High Court . When the Privy Council reversed the view of law taken by the Patna High Court in Commissioner of Income tax vs Kamakhya Narayan Singh ( 1 ) , the Income tax Officer issued notices under section 34 of the ( 1 ) 762 Indian Income tax Act for assessing the escaped income . These notices were issued on August 8 , 1948 . The assessments after the returns were filed , were completed on August 26 , 1948 . Before the notices were issued , the Income tax Officer had not put the matter before the Commissioner for his approval , as the section then did not require it , and the assessments were completed on those notices . Section 34 was amended by the Income tax and Business Profits Tax ( Amendment ) Act , 1948 ( No . 48 of 1948 ) , which received the assent of the Governor General on Sep tember 8 , 1948 . The appeals filed by the assessee were disposed of on September 14 and 15 , 1951 , by the Appellate Assistant Commissioner , before whom no question as regards the validity of the notices under section 34 was raised . The question of the validity of the notices without the approval of the Commissioner appears to have been raised before the Tribunal for the first time . In that appeal , the Accountant Member and the Judicial Member differed , one holding that the notices were invalid and the other , to the contrary . The President agreed with the Accountant 'Member that the notices were invalid , and the assessments were ordered to be set aside . The Tribunal then stated a case and raised and referred the two questions , which have been quoted above . The High Court agreed with the conclusions of the majority , and the present appeal has been filed on a certificate granted by the High Court . Section 34 , as it stood prior to the amendment Act No . 48 of 1948 , did not lay any duty upon the Income tax Officer to seek the approval of the Commissioner before issuing a notice under section 34 . The amending Act by its first section made sections 3 to 12 of the amending Act retrospective by providing `` sections 3 to 12 shall be deemed to have come into force on the 30th day of March , 1948. . Section 8 of the amending Act substituted a new section in place of section 34 , and in addition to textual changes with which we are not concerned , also added a proviso to the following effect : `` Provided that 763 ( 1 ) the Income tax Officer shall not issue a notice under this sub section unless he has recorded his reasons for doing so and the Commissioner is satisfied on such reasons that it is a fit case for the issue of such notice. '' The question is whether the notices which were issued were rendered void by the operation of this proviso . ' The Commissioner contends that section 6 of the , particularly cls . ( b ) and ( c ) saved the assessments as well as the notices . He relies upon a decision of the Privy Council in Lemm vs Mitchell ( 1 ) , Eyre vs Wynn Mackenzie ( 2 ) and Butcher vs Henderson ( 3 ) in support of his proposition . The last two cases have no bearing upon this matter ; but strong reliance is placed upon the Privy Council case . In that case , the earlier , action which had been commenced when the Ordinance had abrogated the right of action for criminal conversation , had already ended in favour of the defendant and no appeal therefrom was pending , and it was held that the revival of the right of action for criminal conversation did not invest the plaintiff with a right to begin an action again and thus expose the defendant to a double jeopardy for the same act , unless the statute expressly and by definite words gave him that right . The Privy Council case is thus entirely different . No doubt , under section 6 of the it is provided that where any Act repeals any enactment , then unless a different intention appears , the repeal shall not affect the previous operation of any enactment so