of all capital receipts and accretions and all outlay properly chargeable to capital ) resulting from the business of the Insured at the premises after due provision has been made for all Standing 'and other charges including depreciation . Insured standing charges . Interest Loans and Bank Overdrafts , Rent Rates and Taxes , Salaries to Permanent Staff and Wages to Skilled Employees , 181 Directors ' Fees , Auditor 's Fees , Travelling Expenses , Insurance Premiums , Advertising and Agency Commission . Period of indemnity . The period beginning with the occurrence of the fire and ending not later than eighteen consecutive calendar months thereafter during which the results of the business shall be affected in consequence of the fire . Rate of Gross Profit . The rate of gross profit per unit earned the output during the financial year immediately before the date of the fire . . to which such adjustments shall be made as may be necessary to provide for the trend of the business and for variations in or special circumstances affecting the business either before or after the fire or which would have affected the business had the fire not occurred so that the figures thus adjusted shall represent as nearly as may be reasonably practicable the result which , but for the fire , would have been obtained during the relative period after the fire. `` The underlined words show that the insurance in respect of profits was to represent as 'nearly as possible the profits which would have been made , had the mills been working in its normal way . We turn next to the Income tax Act . Under section 3 the `` total income of the previous year '' is liable to tax subject to the provisions of the Act . Section 4 defines the total income to include `` all income , profits and gains from whatever source derived. '' There are certain qualifications but they do not concern us here . It will be seen that the taxable commodity , `` total income '' , embraces three elements , `` income '' , `` profits '' and `` gains '' . Now though these may overlap in many cases , they are nevertheless separate and severable , and the simple question is whether the Rs . 14 lacs Here italicised . 24 182 fall under any one or more of those heads . In our opinion , it is `` income '' and so is taxable . It was argued behalf of the assessee that it can not be called profits because the money is only pay able if and when there is a loss or partial loss and that something received from an outside source in circumstances like these is not money which is earned in the business and if there are no earnings and no profits there can not be any income . But that only concentrates the word `` ' profits '' . This may not be a `` profit '' but it is something which represents the profits and was intended to take the place of them and is therefore just as much income as profits or gains received in the ordinary way . Section 4 is so widely worded that everything which is received by a man and goes to swell the credit side of his total account is either an income or a profit or a gain . No attempt has been made in the Act to define `` income '' except to say in section 2 ( 6C ) that it includes certain things which would possibly not have been regarded as income but for the special definition . That however does not limit the generality of its natural meaning except as qualifided in the section itself . The words which follow , namely , `` from a whatever source derived '' , show how wide the net is spread . So also in section 6 . After setting out the various heads of taxable income it brings in the all embracing phrase `` income from other sources. '' There is however a distinction between `` income '' and `` taxable income '' . The Act does not purport to subject all sources of income to tax , for the liability is expressly made subject to the provisions of the Act and among the provisions are a series of exceptions and limitations . Most of them are set out in section 4 itself but none of them apply here . The nearest approach for present purposes is section 4 ( 3 ) ( vii ) : `` Any receipts . . not being receipts arising from business . . which are of a casual and non recurring nature. '' 183 But the sting , so far as the assessee is concerned , lies in the words `` not being receipts arising from business. '' The assessee is a business company . Its aim is to make profits and to insure against loss . In the ordinary way it does this by buying raw material , manufacturing goods out of them and selling them so that balance there is a profit or gain to itself . But it also has other ways of acquiring gain , as do all prudent businesses , namely by insuring against loss of profits . It is indubitable that the money paid in such circumstances is a receipt and in so far as it represents loss of profits , as opposed to loss of capital and so forth , it is an item of income in any normal sense of the term . It is equally clear that the receipt is in separably connected with the ownership and conduct of the business and arises . from it . Accordingly , it is not exempt . This question was considered by the Supreme Court of Canada which decided that a receipt of this nature is not