in this connection . In the first place it urges that the tribunal has not taken into account anything for rehabilitation . But it may be mentioned that the appellant had proved no rehabilitation amount as such . What it had done was to appropriate Rs . 3.16 lacs towards depreciation , which of course was not the proper amount of notional normal depreciation , which is allowable under the formula . Our attention is drawn , however , to the figures filed by the workmen in exhibit U 4 in which Rs . 40,000 has been allowed towards rehabilitation . Even accepting this concession by the workmen and deducting it from the figures given by us above , the appellant would still be left with Rs . 1.01 lacs after paying five months ' basic wages as bonus . There is thus no reason to interfere with the award of bonus on this ground . Lastly it is urged that according to the income tax assessment which was actually made in this case sometime after the order of the tribunal , the appellant has been assessed to income tax amounting to Rs . 2.35 lacs . The appellant claims that it should be allowed this entire amount and not the notional figure calculated by us , namely , Rs . 1.61 lacs as income tax . We are of opinion that for the purpose of the Full Bench formula , the income tax payable has to be deducted on the figures worked out according to the formula and it is immaterial what the actual income tax paid is whether more or less . In this particular case , the income tax appears to be more because certain items which were challenged by the workmen but were allowed as proper expense by the tribunal have apparently not been allowed as proper expense by the income tax department . The industrial tribunal , however , is not concerned directly with what the income 49 382 tax authorities assess as actual income tax in a particular year ; it is concerned with working out the Full Bench formula in accordance with its notional calculations and this is what has been done in this case . There is no ground therefore for interference with the award of bonus for this reason either . We therefore dismiss the appeal , but in the circumstances pass no order as to costs . Appeal dismissed .