a licence fee of Rs . ( in words ) hereby licensed as a dealer in Cotton/Cotton yarn Cotton woven on handlooms for the year ending at ( place of business ) subject to the provisions of the Madras General Sales Tax Act , 1939 , and the rules made thereunder and to the following conditions : '' . R. 8 `` Every licence granted or renewed under these rules shall be liable to cancellation by the Deputy Commercial Tax Officer in the event of a breach of any of the provisions of the Act , or of the Rules made thereunder or of the conditions of the licence. '' The contention raised on behalf of the appellants was that as long as they held the licence it was immaterial if they were guilty of any infraction of the law and that they were not liable to any assessment of sales tax under the provisions of the Act and the only penalty they incurred was to have their licence cancelled and/or be liable to the penalty which under the criminal law they had already suffered . The contention comes to this that in spite of the breaches of the terms and conditions of the licence , having a licence was sufficient for the purpose of exemption under the Act . This contention , in our opinion , is wholly untenable . Section 3 is the charging section and section 5 gives exemption from taxation but that section clearly makes the holding of a licence subject to restrictions and conditions prescribed under the provisions of the Act and the rules made thereunder because the opening words of that section are `` subject to such restrictions and conditions as may be prescribed . '' Under B . 13 an important condition imposed under the Act is the keeping by the dealer and every person licensed of true and correct accounts showing the value of the goods sold and paid by him . Next there is r. 5 of the General Sales Tax Rules which provided 741 that if any person desired to avail himself of the exemption provided in section 5 , he had to submit an application in Form I for a licence and the Form of the licence shows that the licence was subject to the provisions of the Act and the rules made thereunder which required the licensee to submit returns as required and also to keep true accounts under section 13 . This shows that the giving of the licence was subject to certain conditions being observed by the licensee and the licence itself was issued subject to the Act and the rules . But it was contended that the words `` subject to '' do not mean `` conditional upon '' but `` liable to the rules and the provisions '' of the Act . So construed section 5 will become not only inelegant but wholly meaningless . On a proper interpretation of the section it only means that the exemption under the licence is conditional upon the observance of the conditions prescribed and upon the restrictions which are imposed by and under the Act whether in the rules or in the licence itself ; that is , a licensee is exempt from assessment as long as he conforms to the conditions of the licence and not that he is entitled to exemption whether the conditions upon which the licence is given are fulfilled or not . The use of the words `` subject to '' has reference to effectuating the intention of the law and the correct meaning , in our opinion , is `` conditional upon '' . The appellants have been found to have contravened the provisions of the Act as well as the rules and therefore it can not be said that they have observed the conditions upon which the exemption under the licence is available . In that view of the matter , it was rightly held that they were not exempt from assessment under the Act . The appeals are therefore dismissed with costs . Appeals dismissed .