services rendered by the assessee both to the State as well as to the Maharaja and his family and that pension was ordered before the merger of the State and when the employment of the assessee as the Dewan terminated . According to what was stated in the letter of the Maharaja dated March 10 , 1953 , the sum of Rs . 5,00,000 was given as a gift in token of Maharaja 's affection and regard for the assessee and the assessee 's family . There is no reason shown why the Maharaja should have aided and abetted the assessee in escaping income tax . The only reason stated by the Tribunal is based on a wrong assumption as . to the nature of the document of December 27 , 1950 . The payment of Rs . 5,00,000 was sought to be brought within the purview of section 7 ( 1 ) of the Act read with explanation ( 2 ) . This section at the relevant time provided : section 7 ( 1 ) `` The tax shall be payable by an assessee under the head `` Salaries '' in respect of any salary or wages , any annuity , pension or gratuity and any fees , commissions , perquisites or profits in lieu of , or in addition to , any salary or wages , which are due to him from ; whether paid or not or are paid by or on behalf of . . . any private employer . . . . . Explanation 2 : A payment due to or received by 749 an assessee from an employer or former employer or from a provident or other fund , is to the extent to , which it does not consist of contributions by the ' , assessee or interest on such contributions a profit received in lieu of salary for the purpose of this subsection , unless the payment is made solely as compensation for loss of employment and not by way of remuneration for past services ; . . . . Counsel for the appellants contended that the payment did not fall within this section because it was a gift made on account of personal qualifications and was a testimonial unconnected with any service rendered . The submission was that the assessee had already been compensated for his services to the Maharaja personally and the State and this sum of Rs . 5 lacs was a gift in token of affection and regard and not as a payment in consideration of the services already rendered to the State or the Maharaja or both . It will not be inappropriate to mention that in the document dated December 27 , 1950 , it is stated that Rs . 5,00,000 was paid to the assessee as ex Dewan of Bhavnagar State in consideration of his having rendered loyal and meritorious services to Bhavnagar State . There is no mention in the document of December , 1950 , of any services rendered to the Maharaja and it does not seem to have been considered by the Tribunal as to why the Maharaja should make out of his personal account the gift of such a large amount for something which was not done for the Maharaja specifically , particularly when the services to the State and to the Maharaja and his family had already been well compensated . This lends support to the submission of the appellants that the amount was paid merely as a gift in token of Maharaja 's affection and regard for the assessee . Mr. Kolah for the appellants relied on several cases in support of his contention that the amount was not liable to tax under section 7 . In Beynon vs Thorpe ( 1 ) the assessee resigned his position as a Managing Director of the Company ; did no work for the company ; did ( 1 ) 95 750 not attend any Board meetings and received no remuneration as a Director of the Company . It was , however , a custom of the company to give to its retiring employees voluntary pension or allowance and the company voted a pension of pound 5,000 a year to the assessee but this resolution was rescinded and by another resolution pound 5,000 was voted to the assessee '' not as or because he is a Director but as a personal gift '' . The assessee was assessed under Schedule ' E ' in respect of both the pension and the final payment but these assessments were discharged on appeal by the Special Commissioners who decided that the allowances were gifts of personal nature only . It was hold that the payments were not income assessable to income tax in the hands of the assessee . Rowlatt , J. , said at p. 14 : `` Now the question is whether this ceases to be a mere gift because what has led to it is a past employment , an employment which has ceased . It has been . made abundantly clear by the Court in Scotland in Duncan 's case ( 1 ) that this sort of sums received by a person can not possibly be put as receipts from his office or in respect of his office or employment , and they said in terms of that kind in a case like this that these emoluments can not be taxed under Schedule ' E ' , and I am bound to say I think that goes a very long way to conclude this case . But it is said that nevertheless they are in respect of the employment . Well , it seems to me that is a complete fallacy . It is nothing but a gift moved by the remembrance of past services already efficiently remunerated as services in them . selves ; it is merely a gift moved by that sort of gratitude or that sort of moral