shall be payable by an assessee under the head 'Salaries ' in respect of any salary or wages , any annuity , pension or gratuity and any fees , commissions , perquisites or profits in lieu of , or in addition to , any salary or wages , which are allowed to him by or are due to him , whether paid or not , from , or are paid by or on behalf of any private employer ; . . . . . Explanation 2 . A payment due to or received by an assessee from an employer or former employer or from a provident or other fund , is to the extent to which it does not consist of contributions by the assessee or interest on such contributions a profit received in lieu of salary for the purpose of this subsection , unless the payment is made solely as compensation for loss of employment and not by way of remuneration for past services ; . . . `` . To determine whether the second Explanation applies 756 to the facts in this case , it has to be found if this pay ment was received by the assessee from a former employer by way of remuneration for past services . The Tribunal did not accept the letter of the Maharaja , and observed as follows : `` In support of the latter view Mr. Tricumdas strongly relied upon the letter dated 10 3 1953 addressed by the Maharaja to the assessee , vide para 2 above . We have already indicated the circumstances in which that letter came to be written and would merely observe that we find it difficult to bring ourselves to believe in ( sic ) the contents of that letter and would leave the matter at that. '' This , in my opinion , is a finding upon the evidentiary .value of the letter of the Maharaja , and though the order of the Tribunal is worded mellifluously , the Tribunal 's decision is quite clearly that it was not per suaded to accept it . Indeed , of the two documents , greater worth has to be attached to one which was issued before the controversy started and was written not to the assessee but to the Maharaja 's accountant who enquired how the account was to be adjusted . The use of the word 'contemporaneous ' to describe the order to the accountant meant no more than this that it was earlier in time and very soon after the amount was given . The Tribunal did not rely on any extra neous evidence in reaching its conclusion , but on something which had proceeded from the Maharaja himself . The motive of the Maharaja may be irrelevant , because what has to be seen is not why the payment was made but for what the assessee had received it . The Maharaja no doubt had been generous in fixing the pension at Rs . 2,000 per month . But the payment of such a large sum was not just bounty but to reward the past services , which judged from the scale of the pension had not adequately been paid for in the past . In this connection , the words of the Maharaja himself ( and what better evidence can there be ? ) were that the amount was paid `` in consideration of Shri Annantrai P. Pattani the Ex Dewan of our Bhavnagar State having rendered loyal and meritorious services Rs . 5,00,000 are given to him as gift '' . 757 The word gift ' does not alter the nature of the payment . The Maharaja indeed made a gift , as he had stated over again ; but this order quite clearly disclosees that it was by way of remuneration for past services . The case , therefore , falls within the ruling of the a Supreme Court reported in P. Krishna Menon vs The Commissioner of Income tax , Mysore , Travancore Cochin and Coorg , Bangalore ( 1 ) , and is indistinguishable from it . In the earlier case of this Court , the person who gave the money did not even mention any past services ; but this Court found that because the recipient had taught him Vedanta philosophy , the payment was really in the nature of remuneration for past services . The facts in P. Krishna Menon 's case ( 1 ) were that the assessee was teaching his disciples Vedanta philosophy without any motive or intention of making a profit out of such activity . One J. H. Levy who used to go to Travancore from England at intervals attended his teachings . Levy had an account with Lloyd 's Bank at Bombay , and on December 31 , 1944 , Levy transferred the entire amount of Rs . 2,41,103 11 3 to the credit of an account which Levy got the assessee to open in his ' own name . Levy made further remittances and by August 19 , 1951 , had paid about Rs . 4,50,000 . It was held by this Court that the assessee was carrying on a vocation . In deciding the question whether the amounts were assessable to tax , this Court observed as follows : `` . it seems to us that the present case is too plain to require any authority . The only point is , whether the moneys were received by the appellant by virtue of his vocation . Mr. Sastri contended that the facts showed that the payments were purely personal gifts . He drew our attention to the affidavit of Levy where it is stated 'all sums of money paid into his account by me have been gifts to mark my esteem and affection for him and for no other reason ' . But Levy also there said , ' I have had the benefit of his teachings on