Vedanta ' . It is important to remember however that the point is not what the donor ( 1 ) [ 1959 ] Supp . 1 S.C.R . 133 . 96 758 thought he was doing but why the donee received it '' . Sarkar , J. , then referred to the dictum of Collins , M. R. , in Herbert vs Mc Quade ( 1 ) , which may be quoted here : `` Now that judgment , whether or not the particular facts justified it , is certainly an affirmation of a principle of law that a payment may be liable to income tax although it is voluntary on the part of the persons who made it , and that the test is whether , from the standpoint of the person who receives it , it accrues to him in virtue of his office ; if it does , it does not matter whether it was voluntary or whether it was compulsory on the part of the persons who paid it . That seems to me to be the test ; and if we once get to this that the money has come to or accrued to , a person by virtue of his office it seems to me that the liability to income tax is not negatived merely by reason of the fact that there was no legal obligation on the part of the persons who contributed the money to pay it . '' The learned Judge also referred to the observations of Rowlatt , J. , in Reed vs Seymour ( 2 ) and of Viscount Cave , L. C. , in Seymour vs Reed ( 3 ) , and observed that the real question was , is the payment in the nature of a personal gift or is it a remuneration ? , and quoted as the reply the words of the Lord Chancellor `` If the latter , it is subject to the tax ; if the former , it is not . '' Sarkar , J. , also referred to the observations of Lord Ashbourne in Blakiston vs Cooper ( 4 ) , which were : `` It was suggested that the offerings were made as personal gifts to the Vicar as marks of esteem and respect . Such reasons no doubt played their part in obtaining and increasing the amount of the offerings , but I can not doubt that they were given to the vicar as vicar and that they formed part of the profits accruing by reason of his office . `` , and concluded as follows : `` We have no doubt in this case that the imparting ( 1 ) ( 3 ) ( 2 ) ( 4 ) [ 1909 ] A.C. 104 . 759 of the teaching was the causa causans of the making of the gift ; it was not merely a causa sine qua non . The payments were repeated and came with the same regularity as Levy 's visits to the appellant for receiving instructions in Vedanta . We do not feel impressed by Mr. Sastri 's contention that the first payment of Rs . 2,41,103 11 3 was too large a sum to be paid as consideration . In any case , we are not concerned in this case with that payment . We are concerned with payments which are of much smaller amounts and as to which it has not been said that they were too large to be a consideration for the teaching . And one must not forget that these are cases of voluntary payments and the question of the appraisement of the value of the teaching received in terms of money is not very material . If the first payment was too big to have been paid for the teaching received , it was too big to have been given purely by way of gift. '' In my opinion , the case of this Court concludes the matter , and the Tribunal was within its rights in accepting one piece of evidence in preference to another , and the finding on the evidentiary value of the letter of the Maharaja was a matter essentially for the Tribunal to decide finally . I thus agree with the High Court in the answer which it gave , in agreement on facts with the Tribunal , and the reasons for which the answer was given . I would , therefore , dismiss the appeal with costs . BY COURT : In view of the majority judgment of the Court , the appeal is allowed with costs throughout . Appeal allowed .