, 1946 , of the Gwalior Durbar was only an executive order and not a law under article 265 of the Constitution and that , therefore , there was no authority for the imposition of the cess after January 26 , 1950 . This point is covered by the decision of this Court in Madhaorao Phalke vs The State of Madhya Bharat and Another ( 1 ) decided on October 3 , 1960 . In the course of the judgment of this Court delivered by Gajendragadkar , J. , he pointed out : ( 1 ) ; 623 `` It would thus be seen that though Sir Madhya Rao was gradually taking steps to associate the public with the government of the State and with that object he was establishing institutions consistent with the democratic form of rule , he had maintained all his powers as a sovereign with himself and had not delegated any of his powers in favour of any of the said bodies . In other words , despite the creation of these bodies the Maharaja continued to be an absolute monarch in whom were vested the supreme power of th e legislature , the executive and the judiciary . `` In dealing with the question as to whether the orders issued by such an absolute monarch amount to a law or regulation having the force of law , or whether they constitute merely administrative orders , it is important to bear in mind that the distinction between executive orders and legislative commands is likely to be merely academic where the Ruler is the source of all power . There was no constitutional limitation upon the authority of the Ruler to act in any capacity he liked ; he would be the supreme legislature , the supreme judiciary and the supreme head of the executive , and all his orders , how ever issued , would have the force of law and would govern and regulate the affairs of the State including the rights of the citizens . `` It is also clear that an order issued by an absolute monarch in an Indian State which had the force of law would amount to an existing law under article 372 of the Constitution . '' From these observations it would be quite clear that the endorsement of the Maharaja on the Guzarish whereby he accepted the recommendation of the Committee about imposing a cess on the sugarcane crushed by the factory amounted to a law , however informal that endorsement may appear to be . Since it was a law enacted by the Maharaja then , with the coming into force of the Constitution , it became an existing law under article 372 and thus it satisfies the requirements of article 265 of the Constitution . 624 Disagreeing with the High Court we therefore hold that the cess was imposed by authority of law . What remains to be considered is whether this cess violates the guarantee of equal protection contained in article 14 of the Constitution . What was urged Ltd. before the High Court and what was also urged before us was that this is the only sugar factory in the present State of Madhya Pradesh which is liable to pay the cess whereas other sugar factories are exempt therefrom . The result of this is that those other sugar factories do not have to pay this cess and are thus better placed in the matter of carrying on their business of manufacturing and marketing of sugar than the respondents and so there is discrimination against the respondents in that respect . It seems to us , however , that this can not be regarded as discrimination at all , even after the formation of the State of Madhya Pradesh . The reason is that the difference arises out of the historical background to the imposition of this cess . It has recently been held by this Court in M. K. Prithi Rajji vs The State of Rajasthan & Ors ( 1 ) decided on November 2 , 1960 , that geographical classification based upon certain historical factors is a permissible mode of classification . In our opinion , the principle underlying that decision would also apply to the present case . In view of the decision , Mr. Kapur the learned counsel for the respondents sought to rest his argument on a somewhat different ground . That ground is that under the order of June 27 , 1946 , the respondent factory alone was made liable to pay cess and that no similar liability was imposed upon any other factory in Gwalior . It would , however , appear that at that time no other sugar factory was at all in existence in the Gwalior State . The respondent factory was the first to be established and for all we know is even today the only sugar factory in the area which formerly constituted the State of Gwalior . We have already quoted the letter written by the Economic Adviser to the Gwalior Government addressed to the Management of the Gwalior Sugar Co. , Ltd. From that letter it would ( 1 ) C.A . NO . 327 of 1956 . 625 appear that the cess was imposed for a definite purpose and that was to expand the cane area in the Harsi commanded region so that the Gwalior Sugar Co. , Ltd. , that is , the respondent factory would be put on a sound and stable basis . It will , therefore , be clear that far from discriminating against the factory , the whole object of the cess was to do something for the benefit of the factory and for the benefit of the sugar industry in the State which was at that date in its infancy . Apart from the fact that in the matter of taxation the legislature enjoys a wide discretion , it should be borne in mind