Appeals Nos . 98 and 99 of 1957 . Appeals from the judgment and order dated August 31 , 1954 , of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Civil Misc . Case No . 9 of 1953 . R. Ganapathi Iyer and D. Gupta , for the appellant in C. A . No . 98 of 1957 and respondents in C. A . No . 99 of 1957. section K. Kapur and Naunit Lal , for the respondents in C. A . No . 98 of 1957 and appellant in C. k. No . 99 of 1957 . November 30 . MUDHOLKAR , J . These are cross appeals from two judgments of the erstwhile High Court of Madhya Bharat . Both of them arise out of a writ petition presented by the Gwalior Sugar Company Ltd. , who are respondents in C. A . 98 of 1957 , in which they challenged the validity of the levy of a cess on sugarcane purchased by the respondents . The grounds on which the validity of the cess is challenged are two . The first ground is that it was not levied under any law and the second ground is that it is discriminatory against the respondents . In order to appreciate these contentions it is necessary to set out certain facts . In the year 1940 in pursuance of an agreement entered into between the Government of Gwalior State and Sir Homi Mehta and others a sugar factory was established at Dabra . The name of that factory is The Gwalior Sugar Co. , Ltd. On June 20 , 1946 , the Maharaja Scindia , the ruler of Gwalior State constituted a Committee to consider the desirability of imposing a `` cane cess on the lines of the United Provinces or Bihar and to recommend a procedure for fixation of sugar prices within the terms of the agreement subsisting between the Government and the factory '' . The Report of the 621 Committee was submitted to the Maharaja by the Chairman on July 23 , 1946 . In their report the Committee observed that in order to put the industry on a sure and stable footing it was absolutely necessary to develop the cane area and yield in the shortest possible time . For this purpose the Committee recommended that it was essential to levy a cane cess of one anna per maund on all sugar cane purchased by the respondent factory . At the foot of this report the Maharaja made the following endorsement `` Guzarish sanctioned , J. M. Scindia , 27 7 46 '' . It may be mentioned that the Committee also recommended the establishment of a Cane Development Board . This recommendation was also accepted by the Ruler . On August 26 , 1946 , the Economic Adviser to the Government of Gwalior wrote a letter to the Manager of the respondent factory . It will be useful to reproduce the text of that letter as it will have some relevance on the second ground on which the cess is challenged . The letter runs thus : `` Dear air , With a view to expand cane area and cane yield in the Harsi commanded area so that the Gwalior Sugar Co. , Ltd. , be put on a sound and stable basis , the Gwalior Government have decided to impose a cane cess of one anna per maund on all sugarcane purchased by your factory . The operation of this cess will start from the coming sugarcane crushing season . The proceeds of the cess have been earmarked for cane development work in the Harsi region that will be undertaken by a Cane Development Board constituted for the purpose . The Cane Development Board expects your co operation in this development work , which is proposed to be undertaken as soon as possible . Yours sincerely , Secretary , Cane Development Board. '' The respondent factory protested against this levy . After the formation of the State of Madhya Bharat , 79 622 the respondent made a representation to the Government of Madhya Bharat against the levy of the cess . That representation was , however , rejected . They , then , paid the cess for the years 1946 to 1948 amounting to Rs . 1,17,712 8 2 . The Government of Madhya Bharat made a demand from the respondents for a sum of Rs . 2,79,632 14 9 for the years 1949 to 1951 . The respondents challenged the demand upon the two grounds set out above and presented a petition before the High Court of Madhya Bharat for quashing the demand . The petition was opposed on behalf of the State of Madhya Bharat which was the successor State of the former Gwalior State . The High Court granted the petition partially by holding that the State of Madhya Bharat was not entitled to recover the cess due from the respondents after January 26 , 1950 . It may be mentioned that it was conceded on behalf of the respondent company before the High Court that the State was entitled to recover the cess prior to January 26 , 1950 . Later , however , the respondents preferred a review petition to the High Court in which they sought relief even in respect of the cess for the period prior to January 26 , 1950 . The review petition was dismissed by the High Court upon the ground that no such petition lay . The respondents are challenging the view of the High Court in C. A . No . 99 of 1957 . After the coming into force of the States Reorganization Act , 1956 , the State of Madhya Pradesh has been substituted for the State of Madhya Bharat and they are shown as appellants and respondents respectively in the two appeals . The High Court struck down the cess upon the ground that the order dated July 27