the three cases , is that they are citizens of India and carry on their profession and trade of butchers ; they allege that the various provisions of the impugned legislation infringe their fundamental rights in that they , for all practical purposes , have put a total ban on the slaughter of she buffaloes , bulls or bullocks , even after such animals have ceased to be useful , and have virtually put an end to their profession and trade . It is pointed out that the age up to which the animals referred to above can not be slaughtered ( 20 or 25 years ) has been put so high that the practical effect is that no animals can be slaughtered , and the amending or new legislation has put in other restrictions so arbitrary and unreasonable in nature that in effect they amount to a prohibition or destruction of the petitioner 's right to carry on their trade and profession . The following allegations quoted from one of the petitions ( Writ Petition No . 15 of 1959 ) give a general idea of the nature of the case which the petitioners have put forward : `` That there is good professional authority for the view that even in countries where animal husbandry is organised on a highly progressive and scientific basis , cattle seldom live beyond 15 or 16 years . That there is also good authority to the effect that even pedigree breeding bulls are usually discarded at the age of 12 or 14 years . , That in India bulls and bullocks and she buffaloes rarely live even up to the age of 15 years ; draught bullocks begin to age after eight years , 615 That the raising of the age limit from 15 to 20 years is arbitrary , unreasonable and against the general public interests and is repugnant to and infringes the , fundamental rights of the , petitioners under Article 19 ( 1 ) ( f ) and ( g ) of the Constitution . That section 3 of the amending Act is a mala fide , colourable exercise of power , repugnant to the fundamental rights of the petitioners under Article 19 ( 1 ) ( f ) and ( g ) . That this arbitrary raising of the age limit will be against the public interests For the following among ' other reasons : ( i ) That there will , in fact , be no bulls or bullocks or she buffaloes available for slaughter as few , if any , of such animals survive in India up to the age of 15 years ; ( ii ) that the profession , trade and occupation of millions of Muslims will be permanently and irreparably injured ; ( iii ) that millions of members of the minority communities such as Christians , Scheduled Castes , Scheduled Tribes and Muslims , for whom cattle beef is a staple item of their diet , will be deprived of this diet ; ( iv ) that the menace of the rapidly increasing uneconomic cattle population in such matters as the destruction of crops , being a public nuisance , will be accentuated by this arbitrary age limit , and in effect will ensure that bulls and bullocks can not be slaughtered ; ( v ) that the menace of the rapidly increasing population of uneconomic cattle to the fodder and other animal food resources of the country will be accentuated . ( vi ) that the competition between the rapidly increasing cattle population , a large percentage I of which is uneconomic and useless , add the human population for available land will be accentuated ; ( vii ) that this piece of legislation will ensure the steady increase of useless bulls and bullocks and must react disastrously against any attempt to improve milk production , bullock power or animal husbandry generally . '' 616 Similar allegations have been made in the other two petitions also . The correctness of these allegations has been con . tested on behalf of the respondent States , which through some of their officers have filed affidavits in reply . We shall presently examine at greater length the averments made in these affidavits , but we may indicate here in broad outline what their general effect is . In Bihar the age below which the slaughter of she buffaloes , bulls and bullocks is prohibited is 25 years . The respondent State has taken the plea that the usefulness or longevity of live stock for breeding and other purposes depends to a very great extent on ( a ) better animal husbandry facilities like feeding and management and ( b ) control of animal diseases , and as these facilities are now available in a greater measure , the legislature came to the conclusion that a bull or bullock or a she buffalo below 25 years of age continues to remain useful ; if a bull , bullock or shebuffalo is permanently incapacitated below that age the impugned provision permits its slaughter and therefore the legislation which is challenged conforms to the decision of this Court and does not violate any fundamental right . In Uttar Pradesh the age is 20 years as respects bulls or bullocks , with a further restriction to be referred to later . The reply of the res pondent State is that bulls or bullocks do not become unfit at the age of 12 or 14 years as alleged by the petitioners ; on the contrary , they continue to be useful and at no time they become entirely useless . It is then stated in the affidavit : `` As a matter of fact , the age up to which the animals can live and are serviceable depends upon the care and attention they receive and the quality of the grass on which they are grazed . . . .