. .According to a high authority the average age of an ox under favourable conditions would be between 15 to 20 years . Even under conditions prevailing in Uttar Pradesh , bulls can live upto 20 years or more as would appear from an analysis of a survey report of the animal husbandry department. '' 617 On these averments the respondent State contends that the legislation is valid . In Madhya Pradesh also the age is 20 years . The Under Secretary to the ( State Government in the Agricultural Department ' has made the reply affidavit in which it has been stated inter alia that conditions in Madhya Pradesh are different from conditions in other States . The affidavit then states : `` The State of Madhya Pradesh has a total area of 107,589,000 acres , out of which total cropped area is 43,572,000 acres . Forest area is 33,443,000 acres , area not available for cultivation is 11,555,000 acres , uncultivated land is 18,405,000 acres and fallow land is 5,834,000 acres . It will thus be seen that this State has a large forest area and plenty of grass land for pasturage . As the forests supply the greater part of the fuel needs of the human population , the dung of animals is largely available as manure . The legislature considered that bulls , bullocks and buffaloes are useful in this State till they are well past twenty years of age and that they should not be slaughtered till they are past that age and are also unfit for work or breeding . The problem of animals dying of slow starvation or of worthless animals depriving useful animals of fodder needs no consideration in this State . The agricultural community in the State benefits by the existence of animals as long as they are useful. '' There are also further averments as to the shortage of breeding bulls , working bullocks and she buffaloes in Madhya Pradesh . On these averments the contention of the respondent State is that the cattle in that State are useful up to the age of 20 years . We have indicated above in general terms the case of the petitioners and the reply which the respondent States have given . We proceed now to a detailed consideration of the impugned legislation in each case . ( 1 ) We take up first the Bihar Preservation and Improvement of Animals ( Amendment ) Act , 1959 and the rules made under the main Act of 1955 . Section 3 of the Act as amended reads : `` section 3 .