law was referred to the High Court : 746 `` Whether the sum of Rs . 5 lacs has been properly , brought to tax in the hands of the assessee for the assessment year 1951 52 ? '' and a further question as to the applicability of section 4 ( 3 ) ( vii ) of the Income tax Act was not referred on the ground that it did not arise out of the order of the Tribunal . The High Court , on the findings given by the Tribunal came to the conclusion that section 7 ( 1 ) explanation ( 2 ) of the Income tax Act applied . It held that it was not possible to regard the receipt of this sum of money by the assessee as a windfall nor as a personal gift of the nature of a testimonial ; that the gift was not made in appreciation of the personality or character of the assessee nor was it symbolical of its appreciation of his personal qualities ; that the consideration for the gift was in terms stated to be past services and therefore it could not be treated as a mere gift by an employer to an employee when the Court did not know what motivated the making of that gift . On the facts of the case the High Court reached the conclusion , though with some reluctance , that the case fell within the ambit of section 7 ( 1 ) , Explanation ( 2 ) . The High Court also held that this sum could not be exempted from tax on the ground that it was merely a casual or nonrecurring receipt because once connection with the employment was established there was no question of considering the recurring or the casual nature of the receipt . During the pendency of the proceedings in the High Court the assessee died and his heirs and legal representatives were brought on the record and hence they are the appellants . It was argued on behalf of the appellants that the facts showed that the sum paid can not fall within section 7 ( 1 ) , Explanation ( 2 ) , of the Income tax Act . By Hazur Order dated January 22 , 1948 , the Maharaja had compensated the assessee for valuable services rendered and single minded loyalty to the Maharaja and to his State during the difficult period of the war and thereafter , which had added to the prestige and prosperity of the State and in appreciation of that the 747 Maharaja had granted to the assessee a monthly pension of Rs . 2,000 , which was paid to the assessee even after the merger and of the establishment of the United States of Saurashtra from out of the public revenue . At the time when Rs . 5,00,000 were paid , the State of Bhavnagar as such had ceased to exist . The Maharaja was no longer a Ruling Chief but was the Governor of the State of Madras . The order by which Messrs. Premchand Roychand & Sons , Bombay , were directed to pay the sum of Rs . 5,00,000 out of the account of the Maharaja does not mention any reason for payment . When as is alleged an accountant of the Maharaja asked as to how that amount of Rs . 5,00,000 was to be adjusted in the accounts , the Maharaja wrote on December 27 , 1950 , what is described as an order and directed that the sum should be debited to his Personal Expense Account . It also stated , why it is not clear , that that sum was to be given to the assessee in consideration of the assessee 's loyal and meritorious services as a gift . When asked later to clarify the reasons for making this gift the Maharaja made it clear that the gift was as a token of affection and regard for the assessee and his family and that the amount was paid by Messrs. Premchand Roychand & Sons from out of the private monies of the Maharaja with that firm . The Income tax Appellate Tribunal took into account the two documents the first of which has been described as an order of December 27 , 1950 , which was treated as a `` contemporaneous document '' and the other the letter of March 10 , 1953 , which was about two years later . The Tribunal did not accept the correctness of what was stated in the letter but attached a great deal of importance to the document of December 27 , 1950 , which the Tribunal thought was a con temporaneous document . It appears to us that the Tribunal was in error in treating the document of December 27 , 1950 , as a contemporaneous document and because of this erroneous approach the finding that it has given can not be treated as a finding of fact which should bind the court in its decision . It is obvious that the reason why the 748 Tribunal attached all this importance to the document of December 27 , 1950 , was that it was contemporaneous . It would be difficult to accept that a document written six months after the fact of payment could be termed as contemporaneous document particularly when the object of that document was only to instruct an accountant as to how he should make a particular entry . The letter which was written by the Maharaja on March 10 , 1953 , was rejected because of the circumstances of the case one of which was the contemporaneous document . It does not appear to us that the Tribunal gave sufficient or any consideration to the fact that the Maharaja had already passed an order of a liberal and almost generous grant of a pension of Rs . 2,000 per mensem which was in lieu of the services rendered