is merely a gift of that kind . In this ease it happens to be very large ; in many cases it is very small , but in all the cases it seems to me , whether it is large gift like this or whether it is a small gift to a humble servant they are exactly on the same footing as gifts which are made to a child or gifts which are made to any other person whom the giver thinks he ought to supply with funds for one reason or another ; and as the ( 1 ) 751 Lord President in Scotland points out it is only a matter of history that the feeling between the parties which has generated the gift arises out of an employment . '' Mr. Kolah also relied on Reed vs Seymour ( 1 ) . In that case a committee of a Cricket Club granted a benefit match to a professional cricketer in their service . Out of the profits of the benefit match the beneficiary , who was the assessee purchased a farm and assessment was made on him under Schedule ' E ' in respect of the proceeds of the benefit match but this was discharged by the General Commissioner on appeal . This sum was held to be in the nature of a personal gift and not assessable * to income tax . Viscount Cave in his speech posed the question which Rowlatt , J. , put , i.e. , `` is it in the end a personal gift or is it remuneration '' ; if the latter it is subject to tax , if the former it is not . In that case the test applied by Viscount Cave was that the terms of the assessee 's employment did not en title him to a benefit ; the purpose for which the amount was paid was to express gratitude of the employers and of the cricket loving public for what he had done and in their appreciation of his personal qualities . It was also stated that if the benefit had taken place after Seymour 's retirement no one would have sought to tax the proceeds as his income and the circumstance that it was given before but in contemplation of , retirement does not alter its quality and the whole sum was a testimonial and not a perquisite and therefore it was not a remuneration for services but a personal gift . Counsel also relied on Moorehouse vs Dooland ( 2 ) . In that case a cricket professional was employed under a contract in which it was provided that collections shall be made for any meritorious performance by him in accordance with the rules for the time being of the employing Cricket League Club . The assessee played twenty matches and on eleven occasions collections were made on his behalf under the rules of the Club and a total sum of pound 48 15s was collected . This was sought to be taxed as fees , wages perquisites or profits ( 1 ) [ 1927 ] XI T.C . 625 . ( 2 ) 752 arising from his employment . It was held that ( 1 ) the test of liability to tax on voluntary payments from the standpoint of the person who receives it was that it accrued to him by virtue of his office or employment , i.e. , byway of remuneration of his services ; ( 2 ) that if the assessee 's contract of employment entitled him to receive voluntary payments and ( 3 ) that the payment was of a periodic and recurring character . On the other hand if a voluntary payment was made in circumstances which showed that it was given by way of a present or a testimonial on grounds personal to the recipient , the proper conclusion was that the payment was not profit accruing to the recipient by virtue of his office or employment but a gift to him as an individual paid and received by reason of his personal needs or by reason of his personal qualities . Applying these principles the proceeds were by the terms of the contract of employment received by way of remuneration and were liable to tax . In that case the payment was treated as being subject to tax because it was substantially in respect of services and accrued to the assessee by reason of his office . It is quite clear that had the gift been as a testimonial or a contribution for specific performance peculiarly due to the personal qualities of the recipient , it would have been treated as a mere present . The next case relied upon was David Mitchell vs Commissioner of Income tax ( 1 ) where the test laid was whether the payment was made in appreciation of .the personality and character of the assessee or in appreciation of the professional services rendered by him in order to give him an extra profit over and above the share of profit he might get from the firm for the services rendered . Counsel for the respondent argued that the gift made by the Maharaja was not in respect of personal qualities of the recipient but was relatable to his office although made by an ex employer and was therefore taxable ; that the gift was voluntary is clear but it is not quite clear how the amount can be said to be relatable to the office held by the recipient . Even ( 1 ) 753 according to the case of the respondent the amount was paid about two years after the assessee had ceased to be an employee of the Maharaja or the State and immediately on his ceasing to be the Dewan of Bhavnagar State , the Maharaja had granted him a pension from out of the public funds for his services to the State as Dewan and for services