rendered to the Maharaja and his family a handsome and a generous monthly pension of Rs . 2,000 per mensem . Apart from the fact that the Tribunal relied upon a document which was not contemporaneous , it seems to have overlooked the fact that there was a gap of two years before the amount of Rs . 5,00,000 was paid by the Maharaja out of his personal funds . Counsel for the respondent relied upon a judgment of this Court in P. Krishna Xenon vs The Commissioner of Income tax , Mysore , Travancore Cochin and Coorg , Bangalore ( 1 ) . In that case the assessee was a teacher who taught his disciples Vedanta philosophy without any motive or intention of making any profit . One of the disciples made gifts of money to him on several occasions and it was contended by the assessee that he was not liable to tax on the amounts received from his disciple as he was not carrying on any vocation . But it was held that in teaching Vedanta philosophy the assessee was carrying on a vocation and that the payments made by the disciple were received by the recipient from his vocation . It was also held that if the voluntary payments had been made for reasons purely personal to the donee and not connected with his office or vocation , they would not be taxable but if they were made because of the office they would be taxable . The question was not what the donor thought he was doing but why the donee received it . The first thing to notice about that case is that those gifts were not made by the disciple as a gift to mark his esteem and affection for his preceptor but as was stated by the disciple in his affidavit he had paid those amounts because he had obtained the benefit of the teachings by the preceptor on Vedanta . It was found in that case and the disciple admitted ( 1 ) [ 1959 ] Supp . 1 S.C.R . 133 . 754 that he had received benefit from the teaching of his preceptor and that the gifts that he had made , even though as a mark of esteem and affection , were the result of teaching imparted by the preceptor and because the amounts were paid to the preceptor as preceptor and the imparting of the teaching was the causa causans of the making of the gift , ; it was not merely causa sine qua non . The payments were repeated and came with some regularity as the disciple visited the preceptor for receiving instructions . It was in these circumstances that this court held the payments to the preceptor as payments because of the imparting of the teaching and therefore they were income arising from the vocation of the recipient as a teacher of Vedanta philosophy . In our opinion the sum of Rs . 5,00,000 was not paid to the assessee in token of appreciation for the services rendered as a Dewan of Bhavnagar State but as a personal gift for the personal qualities of the assessee and as a token of personal esteem . The appeal is therefore allowed and the order of the High Court set aside and the reference is answered against the Commissioner of Income tax . The appellants will have their costs throughout . HIDAYATULLAH , J. I have had the advantage of reading the judgment just delivered by my brother , Kapur , J. I regret very much my inability to agree that the appeal should be allowed and the order of the High Court set aside . In my opinion , the High Court had correctly answered the question referred to it . The facts of the case have been stated in detail in the judgment of my learned brother , and I need not repeat them but refer only to some of them briefly . On June 12 , 1950 , a sum of Rs . 5 lakhs was given by the Maharaja of Bhavnagar to the predecessor of the appellants , who was an ex Dewan of the State . This was paid by Messrs. Premchand Roychand & Sons , Bombay , with whom the Maharaja had an account . There is no contemporaneous record to show why this payment was made ; but it appears that when the accountant of the Maharaja enquired how the amount 755 was to be entered in the books of account , the Maharaja issued an order on December 27 , 1950 , to the following effect : `` In consideration of Shri Annantrai P. Pattani the Ex Diwan of our Bhavnagar State having rendered loyal and meritorious services Rs . 5,00,000 ( Rupees Five lacs ) are given to him as gift.Therefore , it is ordered that the said amount should be debited to our Personal Expense Account . '' After the assessment proceedings had commenced in this case , the original assessee produced a letter written by the Maharaja on March 10 , 1953 , as follows : `` I confirm that in June , 1950 , I gave you a sum of rupees five lacs ( Rs . 5,00,000 ) which was a gift as a token of my affection and regard for you and your family.This amount was paid to you by Premchand Roychand & Sons according to my letter of 31st May , 1950 , from moneys in my account with them . '' The question in this case was whether section 7 ( 1 ) of the Income tax Act read with Explanation 2 to that section as it stood prior to the amendment in 1955 , applied to this payment . That section , so far as it is material , is as follows : `` 7 ( 1 ) .The tax shall be payable by an assessee under the head 'Salaries '