tax liability of firms which have discontinued their business and provides for three consequences , ( 1 ) that on the discontinuance of the business of a firm , every person who was at the time of its discontinuance a partner is liable in respect of income , profits and gains of the firm to be assessed jointly and severally , ( 2 ) each partner is liable to pay the amount of tax payable by the firm , and ( 3 ) that the provisions of Chapter , so far as may be , apply to such assessment . The liability declared by section 44 is 769 undoubtedly to assessment under Chapter IV , but the expression `` assessment '' used therein does not merely mean computation of income . The expression `` assessment '' as has often been said is used in the Income Tax Act with different connotations . In Commissioner of Income Tax , Bombay Presidency & Aden vs Khemchand Ramdas ( 1 ) , the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council observed : `` One of the peculiarities of most Income tax Acts is that the word `` assessment '' is used as meaning sometimes the computation of income , sometimes the determination of the amount of tax payable and sometimes the whole procedure laid down in the Act for imposing liability upon the tax payer . The Indian Income tax Act is no exception in this respect . . `` . A review of the provisions of Chapter IV of the Act sufficiently discloses that the word `` assessment '' has been used in its widest connotation in that chapter . The title of the chapter is `` Deductions and Assessment '' . The section which deals with assessment merely as computation of income is section 23 ; but several sections deal not with computation of income , but determination of liability , machinery for imposing liability and the procedure in that behalf . Section 18A deals with advance payment of tax and imposition of penalties for failure to carry out the provisions there in . Section 23A deals with power to assess individual members of certain companies on the income deemed to have been distributed as dividend , section 23B deals with assessment in case of departure from taxable territories , section 24B deals with collection of tax out of the estate of deceased persons ; section 25 deals with assessment in case of discontinued business , section 25A with assessment after partition of Hindu Undivided families and sections 29 , 31 , 33 and 35 deal with the issue of demand notices and the filing of appeals and for reviewing assessment and section 34 deals with assessment of incomes which have escaped assessment . The expression `` assessment '' used in these sections is not used merely in the sense of computation of income and there is in our judgment no ground for holding ( 1 ) 770 that when by section 44 , it is declared that the partners or members of the association shall be jointly and severally liable to assessment , it is only intended to declare the liability to computation of income under section 23 and not to the application of the procedure for declaration and imposition of tax liability and the machinery for enforcement thereof . Nor has the expression , `` all the provisions of Chapter IV shall so far as may be apply to such assessment '' a restricted content : in terms it says that all the provisions of Chapter IV shall apply so far as may be to assessment of firms which have discontinued their business . By section 28 , the liability to pay additional tax which is designated penalty is imposed in view of the dishonest contumacious conduct of the assessee . It is true that this liability arises only if the Income tax Officer is satisfied about the existence of the conditions which give him jurisdiction and the quantum thereof depends upon the circumstances of the case . The penalty is not uniform and its imposition depends upon the exercise of discretion by the Taxing authorities ; but it is imposed as a part of the machinery for assessment of tax liability . The use of the expression `` so far as may be '' in the last clause of section 44 also does not restrict the application of the provisions of Chapter IV only to those which provide for computation of income . By the use of the expression `` so far as may be '' it is merely intended to enact that the provisions in Ch . IV which from their nature have no application to firms will not apply thereto by virtue of section 44 . In effect , the Legislature has enacted by section 44 that the assessment proceedings may be commenced and continued against a firm of which business is discontinued as if discontinuance has not taken place . It is enacted manifestly with a view to ensure continuity in the application of the machinery provided for assessment and imposition of tax liability notwithstanding discontinuance of the business of firms . By a fiction , the firm is deemed to continue after discontinuance for the purpose of assesment under Chapter IV . The Legislature has expressly enacted that the provisions of Chapter IV shall apply to the assessment of 771 a business carried on by a firm even after discontinuance of its business , and if the process of assessment includes taking steps for imposing penalties , the plea that the Legislature has inadvertently left a lacuna in the Act stands refuted . It is implicit in the contention of the appellant that it is open to the partners of a firm guilty of conduct exposing them to penalty under section 28 to evade penalty by the simple expedient of discontinuing the firm . This plea may be accepted only if the court is compelled