, in view of unambiguous language , to hold that such was the intention of the Legislature . Here the language used does not even tend to such an interpretation . In interpreting a fiscal statute , the court can not proceed to make good deficiencies if there be any : the court must interpret the statute as it stands and in case of doubt in a manner favourable to the tax payer . But where as in the present case , by the use of words capable of comprehensive import , provision is made for imposing liability for penalty upon tax payers guilty of fraud , gross negligence or contumacious conduct , an assumption that the words were used in a restricted sense so as to defeat the avowed object of the Legislature qua a certain class will not be lightly made . Counsel for the appellant relying upon Mahankali Subbarao vs Commissioner of Income Tax ( 1 ) , in which it was held that an order imposing penalty under section 28 ( 1 ) ( c ) of the Indian Income Tax Act upon a Hindu Joint Family after it had disrupted , and the disruption was accepted under section 25A ( 1 ) is invalid , because there is a lacuna in the Act , submitted that a similar lacuna exists in the Act in relation to dissolved firms . But whether on the dissolution of a Hindu Joint Family the liability for penalty under section 28 which may be incurred during the subsistence of the family can not be imposed does not fall for decision in this case : it may be sufficient to observe that the provisions of section 25A and section 44 are not in pari materia . In the absence of any such phraseology in section 25A as is used in section 44 , no real analogy between the content of that section and section 44 may be assumed . Undoubtedly , ( 1 ) 772 by section 44 , the joint and several liability which is declared is liability to assessment in respect of income , profits or gains of a firm which has discontinued its business , but if in the process of assessment of income , profits or gains , any other liability such as payment of penalty or liability to pay penal interest as is provided under section 25 , sub section ( 2 ) or under section 18A sub sections ( 4 ) , ( 6 ) , ( 7 ) , ( 8 ) and ( 9 ) is incurred , it may also be imposed , discontinuation of the business notwithstanding . In our view , Chief Justice Subba Rao has correctly stated in Mareddi Krishna Reddy 's case ( supra ) that : `` Section 28 is one of the sections in Chapter IV . It imposes a penalty for the concealment of income or the improper distribution of profits . The defaults made in furnishing a return of the total income , in complying with a notice under sub section ( 4 ) of section 22 or sub section ( 2 ) of section 23 and in concealing the particulars of income or deliberately furnishing inadequate particulars of such income are penalised under that section . The defaults enumerated therein relate to the process of assessment . Section 28 , therefore , is a provision enacted for facilitating the proper assessment of taxable income and can properly be said to apply to an assessment made under Chapter IV . We can not say that there is a lacuna in section 44 such as that found in section 25A of the Act . We are unable to agree with the view expressed by the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the later Full Bench decision in Commissioner of Income Tax vs Rayalaseema Oil Mills ( 1 ) , which purported to overrule the judgment in Mareddi Krishna Reddy 's case ( supra ) . We are also unable to agree with the view expressed by the Madras High Court in section V. Veerappan Chettiar vs Commissioner of Income Tax , Madras ( 2 ) . In the view taken by us , the appeal fails and is dismissed with costs . ( 1 ) Appeal dismissed .