, 1953 . But it is contended that though they were working for the ASI they were still not in its employment in law and were in the employment of the Scindias because at one time they had been loaned by the Scindias to the ASI . Let us examine the exact position of the appellants in order to determine whether they were in the employ of the ASI or not . It is not disputed that they were working for the ASI and were being paid by it ; their hours of work as well as control over their work was all by the ASI . From this it would naturally follow that they were the employees of the ASI , even though they might not have been directly recruited by it . It is true that there were certain special features of their employment with the ASI . These special features were that they were on the same terms and conditions of service as were enjoyed by the employees of the Scindias in the matter of remuneration , leave , bonus , etc . It may also be that they could not be , dismissed by the ASI and the Scindias may have had to take action in case it was 820 desired to dismiss them . Further it may be that they could be recalled by the Scindias and it may even be that they might have the option to go back to the Scindias . But these are only three special terms of their employment with the ASI . Subject to these special terms , they would for all purposes be the employees of the ASI and thus would in law be in the employment of the ASI both on July 1 , 1952 and on August 1 , 1953 . The existence of these special terms in the case of these appellants would not in law make them any the less employees of the ASI , for whom they were working and who were paying them , who had power of control and direction over them ; who would grant them leave , fix their hours of work and so on . There can in our opinion be no doubt that subject to these special terms the appellants were in the employ of the ASI in law . They would therefore be in the employ of the ASI prior to July 1 , 1952 and would still be in its employ immediately before August 1 , 1953 . Consequently , they would clearly be governed by section 20 ( 1 ) . As they did not exercise the option given to them by the proviso to section 20 ( 1 ) , they became the employees of the Corporation from August 1 , 1953 , by the terms of the statute . The last point that has been urged is that even if section 20 ( 1 ) applies , the Scindias are bound to take back the appellants . Suffice it to say that there is no force in this contention either . As soon as the appellants became by force of law the employees of the Corporation , as they did so become on August 1 , 1953 , in the circumstances of this case , they had no further right against the Scindias and could not ; claim to be taken back in their employment on the ground that they were still their employees , in spite of the operation of section 20 ( 1 ) of the Act . Nor could they claim any of the alternative benefits specified in the order of reference , as from August 1 , 1953 , they are by operation of law only the employees of the Corporation and can have no rights whatsoever against the Scindias . We are therefore of opinion that the tribunal 's decision is correct . The appeal fails and is thereby dismissed . There will be no order as to costs . Appeal dismissed .