Appeal No . 395 of 1959 . Appeal by special leave from the Award dated November 25 , 1957 of the Industrial Tribunal , Bombay , in Reference ( I. T. ) No . 24 of 1956 . N. C. Chatterjee , D. H. Buch and K. L. Hathi , for the appellants . M. C. Setalvad , Attorney General for India , J . B. Dadachanji and section N. Andley , for the respondent Nos . 1 and 2 . M. C. Setalvad , Attorney General for India , Dewan Chaman Lal Pandhi and I. N. Shroff , for the respondent No . 3 . 1960 . November 30 . The Judgment of the Court was delivered by WANCHOO , J . This is an appeal by special leave in an industrial matter . It appears that the appellants were originally in the service of the Scindia Steam Navigation Co. Ltd. ( hereinafter called the Scindias ) . Their services were transferred by way of loan to the Air Services of India Limited ( hereinafter referred to as the ASI ) . The ASI was formed in 1937 and was 813 purchased by the Scindias in 1943 and by 1946 was a full subsidiary of the Scindias . Therefore from 1946 to about 1951 , a large number of employees of the , Scindias were transferred to the ASI for indefinite periods . The Scindias had a number of subsidiaries and it was usual for the Scindias to transfer their employees to their subsidiary companies and take them back whenever they found necessary to do so . The ' appellants who were thus transferred to the ASI were to get the same scale of pay as the employees of the Scindias and the same terms and conditions of service ( including bonus whenever the Scindias paid it ) were to apply . The Scindias retained the right to recall these loaned employees and it is the case of the appellants that they were entitled to go back to the Scindias if they so desired . Thus the terms and conditions of service of these loaned employees of the ASI were different from those employees of the ASI who were recruited by the ASI itself . This state of affairs continued till 1952 when the Government of India contemplated nationalisation of the existing air lines operating in India with effect from June 1953 or thereabouts . When legislation for this purpose was on the anvil the appellants felt perturbed about their status in the ASI which was going to be taken over by the Indian Air Lines Corporation ( hereinafter called the Corporation ) , which was expected to be established after the , No . XXVII of 1953 , ( hereinafter called the Act ) came into force . They therefore addressed a letter to the Scindias on April 6 , 1953 , requesting that as the Government of India intended to nationalise all the air lines in India with effect from 1 June , 1953 , or subsequent thereto , they wanted to be taken back by the Scindias . On April 24 , the Scindias sent a reply to this letter in which they pointed out that all persons working in the ASI would be governed by cl . 20 of the Air Corporation Bill of 1953 , when the Bill was enacted into law . It was also pointed out that this clause would apply to all those actually working with the ASI on 103 814 the appointed day irrespective of whether they were recruited by the ASI directly or transferred to the ASI from the Scindias or other associated concerns . It was further pointed out that if the loaned employees or others , employed under the 'ASI , did not want to join , the proposed Corporation they would have the option not to do so under the proviso to cl . 20 ( 1 ) of the 'Bill ; but in case any employee of the ASI whether loaned or otherwise made the option not to join the proposed Corporation , the Scindias would treat them as having resigned from service , as the Scindias could not absorb them . In that case such employees would be entitled only to the usual retirement benefits and would not be entitled to retrenchment compensation . Finally , it was hoped that all those in the employ of the ASI , whether loaned or otherwise , having been guaranteed continuity of employment in the new set up would see that the Scindias would not be burdened with surplus staff , requiring consequential retrenchment of the same or more junior personnel by the Scindias . On April 29 , 1953 , a reply was sent by the union on behalf of the appellants to the Scindias . It was pointed out that the loaned staff should not be forced to go to the proposed Corporation without any consideration of their claim for re absorption into the Scindias . It was suggested that the matter might be taken up with the Government of India and the persons directly recruited by the ASI who were with other subsidiary companies might be taken by the proposed Corporation in place of the appellants . It seems that this suggestion was taken up with the Government of India but nothing came out of it , particularly because the persons directly recruited by the ASI . who were employed in other subsidiary companies did not want to go back to the ASI . In the meantime , the Scindias issued a circular on May 6,1953 , to all the employees under the ASI including the loaned employees , in which they pointed out that all the persons working with the ASI would be governed by cl . 20 ( 1 ) when the Bill became law and would be absorbed in the proposed Corporation , unless 815 they took advantage of the proviso