the Scindias and had a right to revert to them . The consequence of all this was that they were held not to be entitled to any of the benefits which they claimed in the alternative according to the order of reference . It is this order of the tribunal rejecting the reference which has been impugned before us in the present appeal . The main contention of Mr. Chatterjee on behalf of the appellants is that they are not governed by section 20 ( 1 ) of the Act and in any case the contract of service between the appellants and the Scindias was not assignable and transferable even by law and finally that even if section 20 ( 1 ) applied , the Scindias were bound to take back the appellants . We are of opinion that there is no force in any of these contentions . 20 ( 1 ) lays down that every officer or employee of the `` existing air companies '' employed by them prior to the first day of July , 1952 , and still in their employment immediately before the appointed day shall become as I from the appointed day an officer or employee , as the case may be , of the Corporation in which the undertakings are vested . The object of this provision was to ensure continuity of service to the employees of the `` existing air companies '' which were being taken over by the Corporation and was thus for the benefit of the officers and employees concerned . It is further provided in section 20 ( 1 ) that the terms of service etc . would be the same until they are duly altered by the Corporation . One should have thought that the employees of the air 818 companies would welcome this provision as it ensured them continuity of service on the same terms till they were duly altered . Further there was no compulsion on the employees or the officers of the `` existing air companies '' to serve the Corporation if they did not want to do so . The proviso laid down that any officer or other employee who did not want to go into the service of the Corporation could get out of service by notice in writing given to the Corporation before the date fixed , which was in this case July 10 , 1953 . Therefore , even if the argument of Mr. Chatterjee that the contract of service between the appellants and their employers had been transferred or assigned by this section and that this could not be done , , be correct , it loses all its force , for the proviso made it clear that any one who did not want to join the Corporation , was free not to do so , after giving notice upto a certain date . Mr. Chatterjee in this connection relied on Nokes vs Doncaster Amalgamated Collieries Ltd. where it was observed at p. 1018 `` It is , of course , indisputable that ( apart from statutory provision to the contrary ) the benefit of a contract entered into by A to render personal service to X can not be transferred by X to Y without A 's consent , which is the same thing as saying that , in order to produce the desired result , , the old contract between A and X would have to be terminated by notice or by mutual consent and a new contract of service entered into by agreement between A and Y . '' This observation itself shows that a contract of service may be transferred by a statutory provision ; but in the present case , as we have already said , there was no compulsory transfer of the contract of service between the `` existing air companies '' , and their officers and employees to the Corporation for each of them was given the option not to join the Corporation , if he gave notice to that effect . The provision of section 20 ( 1 ) read with the proviso is a perfectly reasonable provision and , as a matter of fact , in the interest of employees themselves . But , Mr. Chatterjee argues that section 20 ( 1 ) will only apply to those who were in the employ of the `` existing air companies '' ; it would not ( 1 ) , 819 apply to those who might be working for the `` existing air companies '' on being loaned from some other company . In other words , the argument is that the , appellants were in the employ not of the ASI but of the Scinaias and therefore section 20 ( 1 ) would not apply to them and they would not become the employees of the Corporation by virtue of that provision when they failed to exercise the option given to them by the proviso . According to him , only those employees of the ASI who were directly recruited by it , would be covered by section 20 ( 1 ) . We are of opinion that this argument is fallacious . It is true that the appellants were not originally recruited by the ASI . They were recruited by the Scindias and were transferred on loan to the ASI on various dates from 1946 to 1951 . But for the purposes of section 20 ( 1 ) we have to see two things : namely , ( i ) whether the officer or employee was employed by the existing air company on July 1 , 1952 , and ( ii ) whether he was still in its employment on the appointed day , ( namely , August 1,1953 ) . Now it is not disputed that the appellants were working in fact for the ASI on July 1 , 1952 , and were also working for it on August 1