to cl . 20 ( 1 ) . It was also pointed out that such employees as took advantage of the proviso to el . 20 ( 1 ) would be treated as having resigned from service and would be entitled to usual retirement benefits as on voluntary retirement , and to nothing more . It was also said that their conditions of service would be the same until duly altered or amended by the proposed Corporation . The circular then dealt with certain matters relating to provident fund with which we are however not concerned . It appears that the Act was passed on May 28 , 1953 . 20 ( 1 ) of the Act , with which we are concerned , is in these terms : `` ( 1 ) Every officer or other employee of an existing air company ( except a director , managing agent , manager or any other person entitled to manage the whole or a substantial part of the business and affairs of the company under a special agreement ) employed by that company prior to the first day of July , 1952 , and still in its employment immediately before the appointed day shall , in so far as such officer or other employee is employed in connection with the undertaking which has vested in either of the Corporations by virtue of this Act , become as from the appointed date an officer or other employee , as the case may be , of the Corporation in which the undertaking has vested and shall hold his office or service therein by the same tenure , at the same remuneration and upon the same terms and conditions and with the same rights and privileges as to pension and gratuity and other matters as he would have held the same under the existing air company if its undertaking had not vested in the Corporation and shall continue to do so unless and until his employment in the Corporation is terminated or until his remuneration , terms or conditions are duly altered by the Corporation : Provided nothing contained in this section shall apply to any officer or other employee who has , by notice in writing given to the Corporation concerned prior to such date as may be fixed by the Central Government by notification in the official gazette 816 intimated his intention of not becoming an officer or other employee of the Corporation . '' After the Act was passed , notice was sent on June 17 , 1953 , to each employee of all the air companies which were being taken over by the proposed Corporation m and he was asked to inform the officer on special duty by July 10 , 1953 , if he desired to give the notice contemplated by the proviso to section 20 ( 1 ) . A form was sent in which the notice was to be given and it was ordered that it should reach the Chairman of the Corporation by registered post by July 10 . The appellants admittedly did not give this notice as required by the proviso to section 20 ( 1 ) . In the meantime on June 8 , 1953 , a demand was made on behalf of the appellants in which the Scindias were asked to give an assurance to them that in the event of retrenchment of any loaned staff by the proposed Corporation within the first five years without any fault , the said staff would be taken back by the Scindias . Certain other demands were also made . The Scindias replied to this letter on July 3 and pointed out that they could not agree to give an assurance to take back the loaned staff in case it was retrenched by the proposed Corporation within the next five years . We are not concerned with the other demands and the replies thereto . On July 8 , a letter was written on behalf of the appellants to the Scindias in which it was said that the appellants could not accept the contention contained in the circular of May 6 , 1953 . Though the appellants were carrying on this correspondence with the Scindias , they did not exercise the option which was given to them under the proviso to section 20 ( 1 ) of the Act , . by July 10 , 1953 . First of August , 1953 , was notified the appointed day under section 16 of the Act and from that date the undertakings of the `` existing air companies '' vested in the Corporation established under the Act ( except the Air India International ) . So on August:1 , 1953 , the ASI vested in the Corporation and section 20 ( 1 ) of the Act came into force . Hence as none of the appellants had exercised the option given to them under the proviso , they would also be governed by the said provision , 817 unless the contention . raised on their behalf that they could in no case be governed by section 20 ( 1 ) , is accepted . The tribunal came to the conclusion that , whatever the position of the appellants as loaned staff from the Scindias to the ASI , as they were informed on May 6 , 1953 , of the exact position by the Scindias and they did not ask for a reference of an industrial dispute immediately thereafter with the Scindias and as they '' ' did not exercise the option given to them by the proviso to section 20 ( 1 ) before July 10 , 1953 , they would be governed by section 20 ( 1 ) of the Act . In consequence , they became the employees . of the Corporation as from August 1 , 1953 and would thus have no right there after to claim that they were still the employees of