The records of the execution case were then sent back by the High Court and reached the Howrah Court the 28th February , 1945 . The decreeholder 's counsel was informed of the arrival of the records by an order dated the 2nd March , 1945 . The hearing of the case was fixed for the 5th March 1945. the 5th March , 1945 the court made the following order ; 141 Decree holder prays for time to take necessary steps . The case is adjourned to 10th March , 1945 , for order . Decree holder to take necessary steps by , that date positively. '' The decree holder applied for further adjournment , of the case and the 10th the court passed an order in these terms : `` Decree holder prays for time ' again to give necessary instructions to his pleader for taking necessary steps . The 'petition for time is rejected . The execution case is dismissed part satisfaction. '' When the decree holder was apprised of this order , he , the 19th March , 1945 , made an application under section 151 , Civil Procedure Code , for restoration of the execution and for getting aside the order of dismissal . this application notice was issued to the judgment debtors who raised a number of objections against the decree holder 's petition to revive the execution . By an order dated the 25th April , 1945 , the Subordinate Judge granted the decree holder 's prayer and ordered restoration of the execution . The operative part of the order is in these terms : `` 10th March , 1945 , the decree holder again prayed for time for the purpose of giving necessary instructions to his pleader for taking steps . That petition was rejected by me . 10th March , , 1945 , by the same order I mean the order rejecting the petition for adjournment I dismissed the 'execution case part satisfaction . The learned counsel behalf of the present petitioner wants me to vacate the order by which I have dismissed the execution case part satisfaction . He has invoked the aid of section 151 , Civil Procedure Code , : for cancellation of this order and the consequent restoration of the execution case . I would discuss at the very outset as to whether I was justified in dismissing the , execution case in the same order , after rejecting the petition of the decree holder for an 142 adjournment without giving him an opportunity to his pleader to make any submission he might have to make after the rejection of the petition for time . It is clear from the order that the fact that the petition for time 'filed by the decree holder 10th March , 1945 , was rejected by me was not brought to the notice of the pleader for the decree holder . It seems to me that there was denial of justice to the decree holder in the present execution proceeding inasmuch as it was a sad omission my part not to communicate to his pleader the result of this petition he made praying for an adjournment of this execution proceeding and at the same time , to dismiss the execution case part satisfaction which has brought about consequences highly prejudicial to the interest of the decree holder . I think section 151 , Civil Procedure Code , is the only section which . empowers me to rectify the said omission I have made in not com municating to the pleader for the decree holder as to the fate of his application for an adjournment of the execution case and as such I would vacate the order passed by me dismissing the execution case part satisfaction . The ends of justice for which the court exists demand such rectification and I would do it . The learned Advocate General behalf of the judgment debtor Radha Kissen has argued before me that this court has no jurisdiction to vacate the order passed by me 10th March , 1945 , dismissing the execution case part satisfaction . His argument is that section 48 , Civil Procedure Code , stands in my way inasmuch as the law of limitation as provided in the above section debars the relief as sought for by the decree holder in the present application . I do not question the soundness of this argument advanced by the learned Advocate General . The facts of this case bring home the fact that in the present case I am rectifying a sad omission made by me which brought about practically a denial of justice to the decree holder and as such the operation of section 48 , Civil Procedure Code , does not come to the assistance of the judgment debtor Radha Kissen , '' 143 It would have saved considerable expense and trouble to the parties had the dismissal for default chapter been closed for ever by this order of the Judge ; the proceedings , however , took a different course . A serious controversy raged between the parties about the correctness of this obviously just order and after seven years it is now before us . An appeal and a revision were preferred to the High Court against this order . By its judgment dated 24th August , 1945 , the High Court held that no appeal lay against it as the question involved did not fall within the ambit of section 47 , Civil Procedure Code . It , however , entertained the revision application and allowed it , and remanded the case to the Subordinate Judge for reconsideration and disposal in accordance with the observations made in the order . The High Court took the view that the Subordinate Judge was in error in restoring the execution without taking into consideration the point whether the decree holder 's pleader could really take any step in aid of the