Board , Madras ( 1 ) , the Privy Council again examined the scope of section 115 and observed that they could see no justification for the view that the section was intended to authorize the High Court to interfere and correct gross and palpable errors of subordinate courts so as to prevent grave injustice in non appealable cases and that it would be difficult to formulate any standard by which the degree of err or of subordinate courts could be measured . It was said `` Section 115 applies only to cases in which no appeal lies , and , where the legislature has provided no right of appeal , the manifest intention is that the order of the trial Court , right or wrong , shall be final . The section empowers the High Court to satisfy itself three matters , ( a ) that the order of the subordinate court is within its jurisdiction ; ( b ) that the case is one in which the court ought to exercise jurisdiction ; and ( c ) that in exercising jurisdiction the court has not acted illegally , that is , in breach of some provision of law , or with material irregularity , that is , by committing some error of procedure in the course of the trial which is material in that it may have affected the ultimate decision . If the High Court is satisfied those three matters , , it has no ( 1 ) ( 1917 ) L.R . 44 I , A . 26i . ( 2 ) ( 1949 ) L.R . 76 I.A . 67. power to interfere because it differs , however profoundly , from the conclusions of the subordinate court questions of fact or law. '' Later in the same year in Joy Chand Lal Babu vs Kamalaksha Choudhury ( 1 ) , their Lordships had again adverted to this matter and reiterated what they had said in their earlier decision . They pointed out `` There have been a very large number of decisions of Indian High Courts section 115 to many of which their Lordships have been referred . Some of such decisions prompt the observation that High Courts have not always appreciated that although error in a decision of a subordinate court does not by itself involve that the subordinate court has acted illegally or with material irregularity so as to justify interference in revision under sub section ( c ) , nevertheless , if the erroneous decision results in the sub ordinate court exercising a jurisdiction not vested in it by law , or failing to exercise a jurisdiction so , vested , a case for revision arises under subsection ( a ) or subsection ( b ) and sub section ( c ) can be ignored. '' Reference may also be made to the observations of Bose J. in his order of reference in Narayan Sonaji vs Sheshrao Vithoba ( 2 ) wherein it was said that the words `` illegally '' and `` material irregularity '' do not cover either errors of fact or law . They do not refer to the decision arrived at but to the manner in which it is reached . The errors contemplated relate to material defects of procedure and not to errors of either law or fact after the formalities which the law prescribes have been complied with . We are therefore of the opinion that in reversing the order of the executing court dated the 25th April , 1945 , reviving the execution , the High Court exercised jurisdiction not conferred it by section 116 of the Code . It is plain that the order of the Subordinate Judge dated the 25th April , . 1945 , was one that he had jurisdiction to make , that in making that order he neither acted in excess , of his jurisdiction ( I ) ( I949 ) T .R . 76 J . A . 131 . ( 2 ) A.I.R . 1948 Nag . 153 nor did he assume jurisdiction which he did not possess . It could not be said that in the exercise of it he acted with material irregularity or committed any breach of the procedure laid down for reaching the result . All that happened was that he felt that be had committed an error , in dismissing the main execution while he was merely dealing with an adjournment application . It can not be said that his omission in not taking into consideration what the decree holder 's pleader would have done had he been given the opportunity to make his submission amounts to material irregularity in the exercise of jurisdiction . This speculation was hardly relevant in the view of the case that he took . The Judge had jurisdiction to correct his own error without entering into ' a discussion of the grounds taken by the decree holder or the objections raised by the judgment debtors . We are satisfied therefore that the High Court acted in excess of its jurisdiction when it entertained an application in revision against the order of the Subordinate Judge dated the 25th April , 1945 , and set it aside in exercise of that jurisdiction and remanded the case for further enquiry . The result therefore is that Appeal No . 12 of 1951 is allowed , as the interlocutory remand order of the High Court was one without jurisdiction and that being so , the subsequent proceedings taken in consequence of it , viz. , the order of the Subordinate Judge restoring the application for execution to the extent of Rs . 92,000 , and the further order of the High Court appeal restoring the execution case terms , are null and void and have to be set aside and the order of the executing court dated the 25th April , 1945 , restored . We order accordingly . Appeal No