execution if he had been apprised of the order of the court dismissing the adjournment application . This is what the High Court said : `` The ground put forward by the Subordinate Judge in support of his order for restoration is that the order rejecting the adjournment petition should have been communicated to the pleader for the decree holder but this was not done . We will assume that this was an omission the part of the court . The question now is whether it was possible for the decree holder to take any further steps in connection with the execution of the decree and thereby prevent the execution case from being dismissed for default . No evidence was taken by the learned Subordienate Judge this point and even the pleader who was in charge of the execution case behalf of the decree holder was not examined . . If really the decree holder was not in a position to state that day as to what was the amount due under the decree for which he wanted the execution to be levied and if according to him it required elaborate accounting for the purpose 144 of arriving at the proper figure , it was not possible for him to ask the court to issue any process by way of attachment of the property that date . It seems to us that the learned Judge should have considered this matter properly and he should have found proper material as to whether the decree holder could really take any steps after the application for adjournment was disallowed . '' In sharp contrast to the opinion contained in the order of remand is the view now expressed by the High Court this point in its final judgment under appeal `` One important circumstance which , in our opinion ; tells 'in favour of the decreeholder is the fact we have noticed before , namely , that after the ' petition for time was rejected the court did not call the execution case and otherwise intimate its decision to go with it . In one sense this , might be regarded as a mere error of procedure the part of the court which it would be wrong to allow the decreeholder to take advantage of , but an , error it was , as was admitted by the learned judge himself who had dealt with the matter , and we do not think his opinion , can be lightly brushed aside . There can be no doubt that the learned judge was in the best position to speak as regards the actual proceedings in his court % the 10th March , 1945 , and if he thought that it amounted to a 'denial of justice ' to have rejected the petition for time and by the same order to dismiss the , execution case , it is not for us to say that he was not right . It may well be that even if the case was called the decree holder 's pleader would even then have been absent , but having regard to all the facts and circumstances of the case , we think the court might yet give the decree holder the benefit of doubtin this matter , and assume in his favour that his pleader would have appeared before the learned , judge and tried to avert a peremptory dismissal of the execution case , even though he or his client might not have been fully ready with all necessary materials for continuing the execution proceeding . 145 As we have pointed out before and as the court below has also found , it was possible , for the decreeholder or his pleader to have submitted to the court , some sort , of an account of the decretal dues that date after refusal of the adjournment but even if this could not be done , we still believe that the pleader , if he appeared , could have done something , either by drawing the court 's attention to some of its previous orders or otherwise , by which a dismissal of the case might be prevented. '' It was not difficult to envisage what the counsel would have done when faced with such a dilemma . He , would . have straightaway stated that the execution should issue , for an amount , which was roughly known to ' him , and that the court should , issue a process , for the arrest of the judgment debtors . BY such a statement he would have saved the dismissal without any , detriment to his client : who could later make another application stating the precise amount due and praying for additional reliefs . After remand the 13th March , 1946 , the learned Subordinate Judge restored the execution case in respect of a sum of Rs.92 , OOO only and maintained the order of dismissal in other respects . He held that the decree holder was grossly negligent on the 5th and the 10th March , 1945 , and that due to his negligence the execution case was dismissed in default that even if his pleader had been informed of the order rejecting the application for adjournment he could not have taken any steps to prevent the dismissal of the execu tion ; that the execution being now barred by limitation the judgment debtors should not be deprived of the valuable rights acquired by them but at the same time they should not be allowed to retain the advantage of an acknowledgment of a debt of Rs , 92,000 made by the decree holder . Both the decree holder and the judgment debtors were dissatisfied with this order . The decree holder preferred an appeal to the High Court and also filed an application under section 115 , Civil Procedure 146 Code . The judgment debtors filed cross objections in the appeal and also preferred an