alternative application in revision . The appeal , the cross objections and the two revision 'applications were disposed of together by the High Court by its judgment dated 17th February , 1947 . The order dismissing the execution in default was set aside and the case was restored terms . The decreeholder was held disentitled to interest the decretal amount from 10th March , 1945 , to the date of final ascertainment of the amount of such interest by the executing court and was ordered to pay to the judgment debtors a consolidated sum of Rs . 20,000 by way of compensatory costs . He was to pay this amount to the judgment debtora within two weeks of the arrival of the records in the executing court or have it certified in the execution . In default the appeal was to stand dismissed with costs and the cross objections decreed with costs . An application for leave to appeal to His Majesty in Council against this order was made by the judgment debtors and leave was granted to them 30th May , 1947 . The decree holder also applied for leave and he was granted leave 27th June , 1946 . Both the appeals were consolidated by an order of the court dated 4th December , 1947 , and thereafter the appeals were transferred to this court . On behalf of the decree holder it was contended that the High Court was wrong in allowing the judgment debtors Rs . 20,000 by way of compensation for costs , and that having regard to the terms of the compromise decree it had no jurisdiction to deprive the decree holder of the interest allowed to him by the decree , and that it had neither power nor jurisdiction under section 115 , Civil Procedure Code , to set aside the order dated 25th April , 1945 , passed by Mr. Chakravarti , Subordinate Judge , under section 151 of the said Code and that the interlocutory remand order of the High Court being without jurisdiction . , all subsequent proceedings taken thereafter were null and void . 147 The earned counsel for the judgment debtors not only supported the judgment of the High Court to the extent it went in their favour but contended that the High Court should have refused to restore the execution altogether and that the assumption made by it that the decree holder 's pleader could do something to prevent the dismissal of the case or could present some sort of statement to the court was wholly unwarranted and unjustifiable . It was urged that it ought to have been held that the decree holder was guilty of gross negligence and he was himself responsible for the dismissal of the case , and that it was not necessary to formally call the case after the rejection of the petition for adjournment and that a valuable right having accrued to the judgment debtors by efflux of time , they should not have been deprived of it in the exercise of the inherent powers of the court . It is unnecessary to consider all the points taken in these appeals because , in our opinions the point canvassed behalf of the decree holder that the order of remand was without jurisdiction and that all the proceedings taken subsequent to the order of the executing court reviving the execution were void , has force . The sole ground which the Subordinate Judge had ordered restoration of the execution was that he had himself made a sad mistake in dismissing it at the same time that he dismissed the adjournment application without informing the decree holder 's counsel that the request for adjournment had been refused and without calling upon him to state what he wanted done in the matter in those circumstances . As the Subordinate Judge was correcting his own error in the exercise of his inherent powers , it was not necessary for him to investigate into the correctness of the various allegations and counter allegations made by the parties . He was the best judge of the procedure that was usually adopted in his court in such cases and there is no reason whatsoever for the supposition that when the Subordinate Judge said that he had not given any opportunity to 148 the decree holder 's pleader to take any steps in execution of the decree after the dismissal of the adjournment application he was not right . It could not be seriously suggested that such an opportunity was given to the decree holder , the dismissal order of the execution having been made at the same moment of time as the order dismissing the application for adjournment It is quite clear that the interest of justice demanded that the decree holder 's pleader should have been informed that his request for adjournment had been refused , and further given opportunity to state what he wanted done in that situation . It was wholly unnecessary in such circumstances to speculate what the pleader would have done when faced with that situation . I The solid fact remains that he was not given that opportunity and that being so , the order dismissing the execution was bad and was rightly corrected by the court its own initiative in the exercise of its inherent powers . The point for determination then is whether such an order could be set aside by the High Court either in the exercise of its appellate or revisional powers . It is plain that the High Court bad no jurisdiction in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction to reverse this decision . In the remand order itself it was held that it was difficult to say that the order by itself amounted to a final determination of any question relating to execution , discharge or satisfaction of a decree and that being so , it did not fall within the ambit of section 47 Civil