Procedure Code . We are in entire agreement with this observation . The proceedings that commenced with the decree holder 's application for restoration of the execution and terminated with the order of revival can in no sense be said to relate to the determination of any question concerning the , execution , discharge or satisfaction of the decree . Such proceedings are in their nature collateral to the execution and are independent of it . It was not contended and could not he seriously urged that an order under section 151 simpliciter is 149 appealable . Under the Code of Civil Procedure certain specific orders mentioned in section 104 and Order XLIII , rule 1 , only are appealable and no appeal lies from any other orders . ( Vide section 105 , Civil Procedure Code ) . An order made under action 151 is not included in the category of appealable orders . In support of his contention that an order made under section 151 may in certain circumstances be appealable , Mr. Daphtary placed reliance two single Judge judgments of the Madras High Court and a Bench decision of Oudh . [ Vide Akshia Pillai vs Govindarajulu Chetty ( 1 ) ; Govinda Padayachi vs Velu Murugiah Chettiar ( 2 ) ; Noor Mohammad vs Sulaiman Khan ( 1 ) ] . In all these cases execution sale had been set aside by the court in exercise of inherent powers and it was held that such orders were appealable . The ratio of the decision in the first Madras case is by no means very clear and the reasoning is somewhat dubious . In the other two cases the orders were held appealable the ground that they fell within the ambit of section 47 , Civil Procedure Code , read with section 151 . It is unnecessary to examine the correctness of these decisions as they have no bearing the point before us , ' there being no analogy between an order setting aside an execution sale and an order setting aside the dismissal of an application . The High Court was thus right in upholding the preliminary objection that no appeal lay from the order of the Subordinate Judge dated 25th April , 1945 . We now proceed to consider whether a revision was competent against the order of the 25th April , 1945 , when no appeal lay . It seems to us that in this matter really the High Court entertained an appeal in ' the guise of a revision . The revisional ' jurisdiction of the High Court is set out in the 115th section of the Code of Civil Procedure in these terms : ( I ) A.I.R . 31924 Mad . 778 . ( 3 ) A.I.R . 1943 Oudh 35 . ( 2 ) A.I.R . 1933 Mad . 399 20 150 `` The High Court may call for the record of any case which has been decided by any court subordinate to such High Court and in which appeallies thereto , and if such subordinate court appears : ( a ) to have exercised a jurisdiction not vested in it by law , or ( b ) to have failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested , or ( e ) to have acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity , the High Court may make 'such order in the case as it thinks fit. , , A large number of cases have been collected in the fourth edition of Chitaley & Rao 's Code of Civil Procedure ( Vol . I ) , which only serve to show that the High Courts have not always appreciated the limits of the jurisdiction conferred by this section . In Mohunt Bhagwan Ramanuj Das vs Khetter Moni Dassi ( 1 ) , the High Court of Calcutta expressed the opinion that sub clause ( c. ) of section 115 , Civil Pro cedure Code , was intended to authorize the High Courts to interfere . and correct gross and palpable errors of subordinate courts , so as to prevent grave injustice in non appealable cases . This decision was , however , dissented from by the same High Court in Enat Mondul vs Baloram Dey ( 2 ) , but was cited with approval by Lort Williams J. , in Gulabohand Bangur vs Kabiruddin Ahmed ( 1 ) . In these circumstances it is worthwhile recalling again to mind the decisions , of the Privy Council this subject and the limits stated therein for the exercise of jurisdiction conferred by this section the High Courts . As long ago as 1894 , in Hajah Amir Has8an Khan 'vs Sheo Baksh Singh ( 1 ) , the Privy Council made the following observations section 622 of the former Code of Civil Procedure , which was replaced by section 115 of the Code of 1908 : `` The question then is , did the Judges of the lower courts in this case , in the exercise of their ( I ) ( 1897 ) I C.W.N . 617 . ( 3 ) Cal . ( a ) ( 4 ) ( 1883 84 ) L.R . xi I.A . 237 . 151 jurisdiction , act illegally or with material irregularity . It appears that they had perfect jurisdiction to decide the case , and even if they decided wrongly , they did not exercise their jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity . '' In 1917 again in Balakrishna Udayar vs Vasudeva Aiyar ( 1 ) , the Board observed : `` It will be observed that the section applies to jurisdiction alone , the irregular exercise or nonexercise of it , or the illegal assumption of it . The section is not directed against conclusions of law or fact in which the question of jurisdiction is not involved. '' In 1949 in Venkatagiri Ayyangar vs Hindu Religious Endowments