Restaurant , Ltd. at the material time . 809 Petitions under sections 66 ( 1 ) and 66 ( 2 ) read with a . 21 of the Excess Profits Tax Act were respectively rejected by the Tribunal and the High Court ; but the appellants obtained special leave from this Court , and filed these appeals . In our opinion , a question of law did arise in the case whether the goodwill of the Eros Theatre and ' Restaurant , Ltd. , was calculated in accordance with law . The Tribunal seems to have taken into account only the value of the leasehold of the site to the subsidiary Company , and rejected other considerations which go to make up the goodwill of a business . No doubt , in Cruttwell vs Lye ( 1 ) , Lord Eldon , L. C. observed that goodwill was `` nothing more than the probability that the old customers would resort to the old place '' . The description given by Lord Eldon has been considered always to be exceedingly narrow . The matter has to be considered from the nature of the business , because the goodwill of a public inn and the goodwill of a huge departmental stores can not be calculated on identical principles . The matter has been considered in two cases by the House of Lords . The first case is Trego vs Hunt ( 2 ) , where all the definitions previously given were considered , and Lord Macnaghten observed that goodwill is `` the whole advantage , whatever it may be of the reputation and connection of the firm , which may have been built up by years of honest work or gained by lavish expenditure of money '' . In a subsequent case reported in Inland Revenue Commissioners vs Muller & Co.s . Margarin , Ltd. ( 3 ) , Lord Macnaghten at pp . 223 and 224 made the following observations : . `` What is goodwill ? It is a thing very easy to describe , very difficult to define . It is the benefit and advantage of the good name , reputation , and connection of a business . It is the attractive force which brings in custom . It is the one thing which distinguishes an old established business from a new business at its first start . . . If there is one attribute common to all cases of goodwill in it is the attribute ( 1 ) 346 . ( 2 ) ( 3 ) 810 of locality . For goodwill has no independent existence . It can not subsist by itself . 'It must be attached to a business . Destroy the business , and the goodwill perishes with it , though elements remain which may perhaps be gathered up and be revived again '' . These two cases and others were considered in two 'Australian cases . The first is Daniell vs Federal Com missioner of Taxation ( 1 ) , where , Knox , C. J. observed : `` My opinion is that while it can not be said to be absolutely and necessarily inseparable from the premises or to have no separate value , prima facie at any rate it may be treated as attached to the premises and whatever its value may be , should be treated as an enhancement of the value of the premises '' . In the second case reported in Federal Commissioner of Taxation vs Williamson ( 2 ) , Rich , J. , observed at p. 564 as follows : `` Hence to determine the nature of the goodwill in any given case , it is necessary to consider the type of business and the type of customer which such a business is inherently likely to attract as well as the surrounding circumstances . . The goodwill of a business is a composite thing referable in part to its locality , in part to the way in which it is conducted and the personality of those who conduct it , and in part to the likelihood of competition , many customers being no doubt actuated by mixed motives in conferring their custom '' . In Earl Jowitt 's Dictionary of English Law , 1959 Edn. , `` goodwill '' is defined thus : `` The goodwill of a business is the benefit which arises from its having been carried on for some time in a particular house , or by a particular person or firm , or from the use of a particular trade mark or trade name '' It will thus be seen that the goowill of a business depends upon a variety of circumstances or a combination of them . The location , the service , the standing of the business , the honesty of those who run it , and the lack of competition and many other factors go individually or together to make up the goodwill , ( 1 ) ; ( 2 ) ; 811 though locality always plays a considerable part . Shift the locality , and the goodwill may be lost . At the same time , locality is not everything . The power to attract custom depends on one or more of the other factors as well . In the case of a theatre or restaurant , what is catered , how the service is run and what the competition is , contribute also to the goodwill . From the above , it is manifest that the matter of goodwill needs to be considered in a much broader way than what the Tribunal has done . A question of law did arise in the case , and , in our opinion , the High Court should have directed the Tribunal to state a case upon it . Civil Appeal No . 776 of 1957 is allowed . The High Court will frame a suitable question , and ask for