Appeals Nos . 187 and 190 of 1960 . Appeals from the judgment dated 22nd January , 1957 , of the Punjab High Court ( Circuit Bench ) , Delhi , in Civil Reference No . 6 of 1953 . Veda Vyasa , section K. Kapur and K. K. Jain , for the appellant . B. Ganapathi Iyer and D. Gupta , for the respondent . November 30 . The Judgment of the Court was delivered by KAPUR , J . These appeals are brought by the assessee company against a common judgment and order of the Punjab High Court by which four appeals were decided in Civil Reference No . 6 of 1953 . The appeals relate to four assessment years , 1947 48 , 1948 49 , 1949 50 and 1950 51 . Two of these assessments , i.e. , for the years 1947 48 and 1948 49 were made on the 800 appellant as successor to the two limited companies hereinafter mentioned . Briefly stated the facts of the case are that the appellant company was incorporated in the year 1947 . Its objects inter alia were to acquire as a going concern activities , functions and business of the Delhi Stock & Share Exchange Limited and the Delhi Stock and Share Brokers Association Limited and to promote and regulate the business of exchange of stocks and shares , debentures and debenture stocks , Government securities , bonds and equities of any description and with a view thereto , to establish and conduct Stock Exchange in Delhi and/or elsewhere . Its capital is Rs . 5,00,000 divided into 250 shares of Rs . 2,000 each on which dividend could be earned . The appellant company provided a building and a hall wherein the business was to be transacted under the supervision and control of the appellant . The appellant company also made rules for the conduct of business of sale and purchase of shares in the Exchange premises . The total income for the year 1947 48 was Rs . 29,363 out of which a sum of Rs . 15,975 shown as admission fees was deducted and the income returned was Rs . 13,388 . In the profit and loss account of that year Members ' admission fees were shown as Rs . 9,000 and on account of Authorised Assistants admission fees Rs . 6,875 . The Income tax Officer who made the assessment for the year 1947 48 disallowed this deduction . The return for the following year also was made on a similar basis but the return for the years 1949 50 and 1950 51 did not take into account the admission fees received but in the Director 's report the amounts so received were shown as having been taken directly into the balance sheet . The Income tax Officer , however , disallowed and added back the amount so received to the income returned by the appellant . Against these orders appeals were taken to the Appellate Assistant Commissioner who set aside the additional assessments made under section 34 in regard to the assessment years 1947 48 , 1948 49 and 1949 50 and the 4th appeal in regard to the year 1950 51 was decided against the appellant . Both sides appealed 801 to the Income tax Appellate Tribunal against the respective orders of the Appellate Assistant Commissioner and the Tribunal decided all the appeals in favour of the appellant . It was held by one of the members of the Tribunal that the amounts received as entrance fees were intended to be and were in fact treated as capital receipts and were therefore excluded from assessment and by the other that as there was no requisite periodicity , those amounts were not taxable . At the instance of the respondent a case was stated to the High Court on the following question : `` Whether the admission fees of Members or Authorised Assistants received by the assessee is taxable income in its hands ? '' The High Court answered the question in favour of the respondent . The High Court held that the appellant was not a mutual society and therefore was not exempt from the payment of income tax ; that it had a share capital on which dividend could be earned and any person could become a shareholder of the company by purchasing a share but every shareholder could not become a member unless he was enrolled , admitted or elected as a member and paid a sum of Rs . 250 as admission fee . On becoming a member he was entitled to exercise all rights and privileges of membership . It also found that the real object of the company was to carry on business as a Stock Exchange and the earning of profits . It was held therefore that the admission fees fell within the ambit of the expression `` profits and gains of business , profession or vocation '' . The further alternative argument which was raised , i.e. , that the income fell under section 10 ( 6 ) of the Act , was therefore not decided . Mr. Veda Vyasa contended on behalf of the appellant that there were only 250 members of the appellant company ; that the amount received as membership fees was shown as capital in the books of the company and there was no periodicity and therefore the amounts which had been treated as income should have been treated as capital receipts and therefore exempt from assessment . It was firstly contended that the question did not arise out of the order of the 802 Tribunal and that a new question had been raised but the objection is futile not only because of the absence of any such objection at the stage of the drawing up the statement of the case but also because of failure to object in the High Court ; nor do we see any validity in